The Herald LIONEL MESSI “A very sad day for all Argentines and football. He leaves us but does not leave, because Diego is eternal. I keep all the beautiful moments lived with him and I send my condolences to all his family and friends.” PELE “What sad news. I lost a great friend and the world lost a legend. There is still much to be said, but for now, may God give strength to family members. One day, I hope we can play ball together in the sky.” OSSIE ARDILES “Thank dear Dieguito for your friendship, for your football, sublime, without comparison. Simply, the best football player in the history of football. So many enjoyable moments together. Impossible to say which one was the best. RIP my dear friend.” CRISTIANO RONALDO “Today I bid farewell to a friend and the world bids farewell to an eternal genius. One of the best of all time. An unparalleled magician. He leaves too soon, but leaves a legacy without limits and a void that will never be filled. Rest in peace, ace. You will never be forgotten.” LUIDGI DE MAGISTRIS, MAYOR OF NAPLES “I ask for a day of mourning and at the same time that our stadium that witnessed so many of his successes may bear his name. Tomorrow hang from your balcony or window a scarf, a flag, a jersey. Anything that represents the Naples team. Bye, Diego”. Banners and flags have spread throughout the streets of the city centre, while on social media a call for a flash mob has gone viral. In the meantime, hundreds of fans in the Spanish Quarters have begun lighting smoke bombs and shouting stadium chants in front of Maradona murals. ALEKSANDER CEFERIN, UEFA PRESIDENT “I am deeply saddened to hear of the death of Diego Maradona, one of world football’s greatest and most iconic figures. He achieved greatness as a wonderful player with a genius and charisma of his own.’’ LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA, FORMER BRAZIL PRESIDENT “Diego Armando Maradona was a football giant, from Argentina and all over the world, a talent and a unique personality. His genius and passion on the pitch, his intensity in life and his commitment to Latin American sovereignty marked our time. On the pitch, he was one of the greatest opponents, perhaps the greatest, that the Brazilian team has faced. Outside of sporting rivalry, he was a great friend of Brazil. I can only thank you for your solidarity with the people’s fight and with the Brazilian people. Maradona will never be forgotten.” — BBC Sport/The Guardian“I am deeply saddened to hear of the death of Diego Maradona, one of world football’s greatest and most iconic figures. He achieved greatness as a wonderful player with a genius and charisma of his own.’’