The Herald Bongani Ndlovu
Bulawayo Bureau
Are you heartbroken and feel like you will never love again? Well, good news is that you are just going through a phase which like all other things, will pass and you will love again. But in the meantime, budding writer, Perfect Moyo has you covered as he has penned an anthology of poems about the two sides of love based on personal experiences, saying he wants to use the poems to send a message of revival. The book titled “Tribute to a Storm” was published in July and launched on October 31. An electrician by profession, Moyo said the book’s central theme is love. “It’s a four-tier book that touches on the beauty of falling in love, problems that come in almost every relationship and how to face them, the pain of a heartbreak and how to deal with it, and how to love again,” said Moyo. He said the book was inspired by the various relationships he has seen and his personal experiences. “The main motive was to send a message of revival to those that have been heartbroken, those that are heartbroken and those that would be in future. “They must all know that true love still exists and can find them once more,” said Moyo. He said he has received positive reviews from people who have bought the book. “I published the book in July this year and launched it on the 31st of October at the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce in Bulawayo. The launch was graced by authors who included Zibusiso Mabonisa, Kgalelo Moyo and Onesimo Mpofu. “Since its release, the book has received positive feedback in the market as most are saying its relatable, simple to understand and contemporary,” said Moyo. “It’s my first work, but it’s surely not the last as there’re other projects that I’m working on.” Born on May 20, 1993, Moyo grew up in Mpopoma and did his primary education in Nkulumane Primary School before attending Mpopoma High school. He later transferred to Lupane and attended Zenzele Secondary school for his O’ levels and later, his A’ levels at Mabhikwa High school.