The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga
Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE Rugby Union president, Aaron Jani, said his recent appointment to Rugby Africa’s Women’s Rugby Advisory Committee will help the sport to grow in the country. Jani is part of the seven-member team which was announced by the continental body on Monday. He believes the appointment will help transform the women’s game in Zimbabwe in a big way. Jani also hopes his involvement with the administration of the women’s rugby at continental level will help turn around the perceptions local people have about women’s rugby as a sport. “I am very excited and my focus is to do my duties diligently as this will help us as a nation to see rugby in a different manner, especially on the girl child side. “These are exciting times and, as Zimbabwe, I think we can increase our support to the women in sport, and not only in rugby, but all the athletes. “We are going to use this opportunity to see the sport get support especially for the girls in the country. “As we now have a position of influence, we need to contribute on policy making in a positive way which can also help us in a big way as a nation,” said Jani. Several rugby enthusiasts, including former ZRU president John Falkenberg, congratulated Jani for the appointment. “This is a vindication of the great work you, as the president, has championed in the emancipation of the girl child and the development of women’s rugby in the country and beyond. “Under your leadership girls and women’s rugby in Zimbabwe has grown from strength to strength not only in the numbers of girls participating in rugby but qualitatively. “Most of our women rugby players are sought after by international clubs and universities. “We hope, through your additional role with Rugby Africa, you will continue to champion the development of the women’s game through the various promotional events and tournaments both here in Zimbabwe and Africa-wide,” said Falkenberg. The new Rugby Africa Women’s Rugby Advisory Committee will be chaired by Paula Lanco with Jani and Rolande Boro as the executive members.