The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter
AS she settles at her new club Surrey Storm, in the United Kingdom, netball player Felisitus Kwangwa has described her first meeting with the rest of the squad as a special moment. The Gems goal defender and captain moved to the UK this month after she signed for the Vitality Netball Superleague side for the 2021 season. She becomes the first local player to join the league regarded as one of the best in the world. Kwangwa was in isolation since her arrival in the UK two weeks ago due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She got to meet and train with her teammates for the first time on Thursday at Surrey Sports Park. “I was so excited to be there and, of course, it’s different from what I am used to at home because it’s such a good facility and an indoor one, a very big one. “But, thank God, at least, I have played once in indoor courts in international tournaments, so I won’t struggle that much. “I was so happy when I went there for the first time because I found them putting my flag on the terraces, which was something good and I really liked it. “I was so happy that’s what I can say. Later on, I had my first training session, I was able to meet the rest of the squad. “It’s one of those special moments, everyone was waiting for me and they were really happy and I think I can say it was quite easy for me to fit in the squad. “I really enjoyed it,” said Kwangwa. She was an integral part of the Zimbabwe senior netball team that made their maiden appearance at the World Cup last year in Liverpool. The Gems announced their presence on the global stage with an incredible show, that saw them finishing in eighth place out of the 16 countries that took part. It was during the World Cup that Surrey Storm noticed Kwangwa, who had an outstanding outing in Liverpool. “So far, I haven’t faced any big challenge in trying to adjust to the new environment. “Of course, the weather, it’s cold.   But, I know very soon I would be used to it and, thank God, you are only outdoor when you are going for training but when you are training you will be indoor, so everything is well. “I had been in isolation, of course, I felt really lonely and missed home. “But, at the same time, I think it was worth it because of the coronavirus cases that are rising, so it was for my safety and for the others. “I just thank God that it all went well until yesterday (Thursday) when I started training,” said Kwangwa. For now, the focus is on the pre-season preparations with games set to begin in February. “The league is expected to start on the first week of February, so we are preparing and hope coronavirus cases will drop instead of increasing so that we can have our games,” said Kwangwa. Gems coach Lloyd Makunde has rallied Kwangwa to do well in her new adventure. And believes the presence of the Gems captain in one of the world’s top leagues is a game-changer for local players.