The Herald Beitbridge Bureau WITH effect from yesterday, the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) introduced a pre-clearance system on all vehicles goods imported by road. Under the latest customs arrangement, import duty procedures are completed before the traveller or the imported goods arrive at a selected port of entry. Upon arrival, the goods are only checked for conformity and this reduces the time spent by importers while completing customs processes at the ports of entry . This is different from a system where the processing of customs documents was done by a traveller or importer upon reaching the respective port of entry. Zimra announced the latest development in a public notice yesterday. “With effect from November 1, 2020, importers are advised that goods imported by road into Zimbabwe must be pre-cleared before their arrival,” read the notice. “All privately imported motor vehicles driven or transported by car carriers must be pre-cleared before they are dispatched to Zimbabwe”. Under the new system, the importers or their appointed agents are expected to submit online scanned copies of invoices, bill of lading, export documents, proof of payment, freight statement, copy of passport, police clearance, and letter of rebate (where applicable). In addition, they should also send any other relevant documents relating to the imports to enable customs officers to calculate duty and advise on the amount payable. Zimra said where duties are exempted because of the non-duty paying regimes such as rebate, the necessary processes will be done and the importer will be advised. “Motor vehicles can only be loaded onto carriers or driven into the country when the relevant processes have been completed, including the payment of duties, where applicable. “Clearance details must be sent to the carrier to enable them to load vehicles. Please take note that carriers have been notified of this requirement,’’ read the notice. The revenue authority said all imported vehicles would be subjected to compliance checks before the Customs Clearance Certificate  is processed and issued. Failure to pre-clear vehicle(s) or providing false information to Zimra will be treated as an offence under the new regime.