The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Former Mamelodi Sundowns boss, Anastasia Tsichlas, says the club’s president, Patrice Motsepe, could easily become FIFA president in future as the whole world loves him. This week Motsepe’s candidacy for next year’s election for the CAF presidency was officially confirmed by SAFA president, Danny Jordan, and Minister of Sport Nathi Mthethwa. Tsichlas said, as SAFA, they were fully behind the multi-billionaire even though he will have to step down as Sundowns chairman to take up the role should he win, according to SAFA’s rules. “We support 100 percent the nomination of Patrice Motsepe, he’s a person that has been in football for quite some time now, he understands football in general,” Tsichlas told KickOff.com. “And, also, he is a person that is strong. He is a leader himself, I mean he’s a legend. “He’s a leader, not only in business but he achieved a lot also with Sundowns generally speaking. “He has a very well respected personality. And 100 percent we support a South African with the calibre of Patrice Motsepe. “I know all over the world they want Patrice because as I say his reputation is very high. “We must be proud that we have a personality like Patrice Motsepe you know, and he’s a South African. “So, we are a big nation in football, and we all think that he’s the most capable person to take over and help Africa’s football generally.” Meanwhie, CAF president, Ahmad, has been released from hospital after ten days in isolation with the coronavirus in Cairo. Described as “with minimal risk of complications’’ and “not contagious anymore,’’ the 60-year-old has returned to his home in the Egyptian capital. The FIFA vice-president was taken to hospital hours after testing positive for Covid-19 on 30 October. “Doctors have prescribed, at least 20 days of convalescence, during which he will have to limit his efforts in order to fully recover his energy,” said a CAF statement. The Malagasy is at the start of his campaign for re-election, while also facing an ongoing FIFA ethics case. In a month, he is scheduled to lead Africa’s General Assembly. “President Ahmad would like to personally and sincerely thank all the medical staff of AS Salam International Hospital for their support,” CAF added. “He would also like to thank the work of (CAF’s) vice-presidents, as well as the general secretary, who have carried out certain missions that the president was unable to accomplish at the time.” Both Ahmad and CAF are facing a critical period, with candidates for next March’s presidential elections needing to register by the end of yesterday. Three rivals came forward during Ahmad’s Covid-enforced stay — Jacques Anouma of Cote d’Ivoire, Motsepe and Mauritania’s Ahmed Yahya — all announcing bids. Ahmad tested positive for coronavirus two days after his campaign for a second term began, with news of a possible ban by FIFA emerging shortly afterwards. BBC Sport Africa understands he has been found to have breached various codes of ethics, with Ahmad previously denying any wrongdoing. A decision from football’s world governing body is expected towards the end of the month. On 11 December, CAF — which has had a turbulent 18 months, during a third of which FIFA worked in its Cairo headquarters in a bid to improve governance — hold their General Assembly in Ethiopia, by video conference as back-up if also affected by Covid-19. CAF’s elections are scheduled to take place in the Moroccan capital Rabat on 12 March. — KickOff/BBC Sport.