The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS legend, David “Yogi” Mandigora, believes the Real Betis Academy will help unearth raw gems in remote parts of the country and change domestic football. The nursery, which was officially launched in Zimbabwe last Friday, is a global partnership between La Liga side, Real Betis, and local sports agency Athletes Sphere Management. The academy will take on board players between the ages of 8 and 18 and the project will be overseen by Real Betis technical director, Juan Parra, who is scheduled to come and work in Zimbabwe early next year. Former Soccer Star of the Year, Murape Murape, is the head coach of the academy with Highlanders legends Johannes Ngodzo and Gift Lunga (Jnr) coming in as the first and second assistants. Tichaona Diya and Philemon Mutyakureva are also on board, as assistant coaches, while the medical side will be overseen by sports medicine expert Nicholas Munyonga. Grant Mitchel will be in charge of fitness training. LaLiga are a private sports association which reached a cumulative audience of more than 2.7 billion people globally. With their headquarters in Madrid, the organisation is present in 55 countries through 11 offices and 46 delegates, covering 84 countries. Mandigora, who helped Dynamos win their first league title in 10 years in 2007, before leading them to the CAF Champions League semi-finals a year later, attended the colourful launch. And, the coach was in rural Mutoko, the following day, where he was the guest of honour for a grassroots football tournament organised by a US-based Zimbabwean Gideon Kanyongo. “I was actually shocked by the level of talent in the rural areas. The competition was top-notch,” said Mandigora. “Look, we have read about it and people have always talked about it. There is talent in the rural areas which mostly go untapped. “I am glad Real Betis Academy has come aboard and they have promised to address this perennial problem. “There is definitely talent, which is left to rot in the country’s remote parts. I will personally recommend some of the players, I watched at this tournament in Mutoko, to the Real Betis academy coaches.” About 70 local fans had the chance of witnessing a LaLiga match between Real Betis and Elche, alongside La Liga managing director for Southern Africa, Marcos Pelegrin in Harare on Sunday. Real Betis won 3-1. “We are so grateful to the people of Zimbabwe for joining us and enjoying together what has been a great match,’’ said Pelegrin. “This experience has been a fantastic first activation in the country. We are already looking forward to coming back any time soon.’’ Meikles Hotel, which is located in the heart of Harare, Zimbabwe, was the place to be for football fans on Sunday 1st November as LaLiga hosted a watch party. After the success of this first event, LaLiga plan to have similar events in the future, as the Spanish league step up efforts to grow the brand in the country. Apart from the football, watched on the screens, the guests had the chance to win official Elche CF football jerseys and scarfs from both teams. A lucky winner got the biggest prize of the day, an official Real Betis jersey signed by the whole team. Mandigora said the Real Betis project could not have come at a better time for domestic football and it presents huge opportunities for the game. He said he would recommend that Murape and his coaching crew have a look at some of the talented players he witnessed at the tournament in Mutoko. From the seven teams, which took part in the US$2000 tournament held in honour of the sponsors’ late father, Kanyongo FC emerged the winners after edging Gumbure 3-2 on penalties. The match had ended goalless in regulation time. One of the organisers of the tournament, Joyce Munda, said the presence of legends like Mandigora and Laban Kandi, will help motivate the players. Nyasha Muganhu won the Golden Boot award, after scoring six goals, while Munyaradzi Ngwarati was Goalkeeper of the Tournament. Kurai Marowa walked away with the best player’s award. Programme co-ordinator, Priscilla Gwenambira, said the initiative, which is also being supported by Americans Jim and Beth Simpson, will soon spread across the whole country.