The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter
NEW National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe vice president, Titus Madzingo, has called for stakeholders to come together and create an enabling environment for athletes to achieve podium performances. Madzingo was elected first vice president at the elective general meeting on Saturday in Gweru. Tendai Tagara retained the presidency unopposed. Madzingo got 11 votes against Enias Nhoro, who had nine, while Njere Shumba withdrew. He says issues of standard facilities needed to be addressed, as well as investing in athletes. “If we can get, at least, one standard tartan track in Zimbabwe, through the Ministry of Sport so that our athletes can qualify locally, it will help. “At the moment we don’t have, so, to qualify we have to send an athlete to South Africa or Botswana. So, that’s our plea to Government, even if they can at least renovate White City Stadium, National Sports Stadium or the one at the University of Zimbabwe. “All those are standard tracks, but they need to be refurbished to get World Athletics certificates. If potential athletes can be funded, it will make a difference in their training. NAAZ can identify athletes that can qualify for major events and get assistance from government. “They can be placed in High Performance Centres and it needs money, so if they can, at least get funding that can sustain them at the Centres it may help, or even to establish our own High Performance Centre here in Zimbabwe,” Madzingo said. The national association has had to rely on South Africa, Botswana and Kenya when it comes to High Performance Centres where they can have their athletes camping and training, in standard facilities and equipment. Although there have been promising athletes over the years, medals have not been won at major competitions such as the World Championships and the Olympics. Zimbabwe’s medal at the World Championships was in 2011 when United States-based Ngoni Makusha got a bronze medal in long jump, in Daegu, South Korea. Other members of the new executive are second vice president Siphathisiwe Machaya, who takes over from Christine Ncube. Cynthia “Dalny Express’’ Phiri remains the secretary-general after getting 12 votes against Pretty Maware’s 11. Enock Ngwenya comes in as treasurer, replacing Salatiel Zangure.