The Herald Branton Matondo
Midlands State University
Selecting a degree programme to pursue might appear simple but on the ground, it is a different story altogether. For most high school students, confusion and uncertainty over which programme to pursue is the order of things when it comes to making this important decision that is likely to determine one’s future and possibly for the rest of one’s life. For some high school students, the tendency is to select a degree programme that is in line with subjects studied at Advanced level. For example, if a high school student chooses arts subjects, he or she is likely to pursue a social science degree programme when he or she goes to university. Examples are also derived from students taking commercial and science subjects. The main challenges affecting high school students appear to be lack of proper degree and career guidance. High school students have different reasons for the choice of programmes they pursue at university. Some are influenced by family or because some family member pursued the same programme. Others, however, appear to make instantaneous decisions when it comes to selecting a degree programme to pursue. An instantaneous decision or sometimes called an on-the-spot-decision is one where a prospective undergraduate decides what he or she wants to pursue in the next several years at university, whether on campus or online. However, such decisions demonstrate lack of proper assessment and planning. This is a worrying development because high school students first and foremost need to be enlightened on the magnitude and pressure of studies at university level.  There is need for the high school students to understand studying at university level is a totally different ball game, involving years of absolute focus that determines one’s future. There are sad stories of students who have had to switch programmes midway. This would appear to suggest lack of advice and career guidance before they embarked on their university studies. Academic motivation and career guidance are among the best tools for equipping students interested in pursuing studies at university. Zimbabwe high schools need academic motivators or career guidance programmes so as to equip students properly in decision-making when selecting degree programmes to pursue. High schools in the country should make it a point of inviting or partnering with universities so that high school students have the required exposure to the demands and expectations of university study programmes. Such an exercise would go a long way in expanding appreciation and knowledge on career prospects. Interactions of such nature would allow students to brainstorm and develop their minds on what they really want to pursue before embarking on their journey at university level. But sometimes, following one’s passion is the best medicine to cure the predicament because pursuing something that one is passionate about makes it easier, manageable and workable. Passion reveals talents and with talents comes fortunes. In the next few months, many students will be making the transition from high school to university. It is important to make use of this time to decide on the course of one’s educational career. ****** Tanaka Moyo Midlands State University THE banning of kombis as a mode of public transport in March this year by the Government in fulfilment of Covid-19 guidelines brought relief to women and young girls, for long victims of sexual harassment by touts. Before the introduction of the Zupco buses, unaccompanied girls and women were abused by the touts/hwindis especially when moving without a male counterpart. Touts would short-change or extort young girls, resulting in them being manipulated by the touts. The Government’s policy that saw kombis replaced by Zupco buses or buses operating under the Zupco franchise meant the girl child could put on clothes of their choice and travel safely and freely without fear of abuse from the touts. Some of the Zupco buses, have female conductors, who handle passengers in a professional way thus ensuring that Covid-19 guidelines are being observed. ******  Tanaka N.M. Marewangepo Midlands State University Depression is a common and serious medical condition that negatively affects how one feels, thinks and acts. Anyone can suffer from depression, although in most cases students are most likely to experience depression. Depression causes feelings of sadness, lack of interest in activities, change in appetite, trouble sleeping or sleeping too much, feeling worthless, thoughts of death and constantly feeling guilty. These symptoms are a regular pattern among students, they are ignored or not considered a big issue. Due to lack of awareness one is affected by the way they feel about themselves and those around them (fellow peers). Some students resort to drug and alcohol abuse due to depression and most of them are unaware of their condition. As students, we should encourage fellow students to get help before they entertain suicidal thoughts. One can overcome depression if one confides in someone they trust or if they seek professional help. They are other solutions to overcoming depression. These include having a positive mindset, bouncing back from disappointments or failures. Knowing one’s emotions helps one understand and accept themselves. Depression is real and as students we should bring awareness on and off campus. ****** Oppah Mutsa Muvimi Midlands State University Do students at universities use drugs for entertainment or it’s an addiction? Drugs are chemicals that change the way a person’s body works. There are a variety of drugs that students at universities use. These range from alcohol, mbanje, cocaine and hallucination drugs. These drugs are very dangerous for students as they cause feelings of heaviness in the body, slowed or arrested breathing and also sleeplessness. Drugs can also affect a person’s thinking, mood, energy level and perception. Drug abuse can impact the brain, leading to memory problems. Some health effects of using drugs are risk of heart attacks, stroke, damage to heart and respiratory distress. It is dangerous for students who take drugs as it results in them absconding lectures, getting addicted to drugs and becoming violent. Lecturers always advise students against taking drugs. It is also observed that students who take drugs tend to panic when asked questions during classes. Drugs may cause one to be prodigal and spend carelessly. Universities have come up with solutions to combat drug abuse. These include providing social and spiritual education to students. But it is also crucial to work hard so that a student will use most of the time working on school work. Parents and students need to learn about the dangers of taking drugs. A serious punishment like imprisonment for the suppliers and expulsion for students caught on the wrong side of the law should be implemented.    