The Herald Sports Reporter CHAPUNGU coach, Moses Chunga, says he was devastated by the death of the club’s long-serving secretary-general, Mkhululi Dube, in a plane crash just outside Gweru on Tuesday. Dube, who was a flight instructor with the Air Force of Zimbabwe, died together with a trainee pilot, Silungile Sweswe, after their aircraft developed a technical fault and went down at Dabuka in Somabula, on the outskirts of Gweru. Dube served Chapungu for over a decade. And Chunga, who joined the club at the beginning of the year, said the death was a massive blow to their quest for a quick return to the Premier Soccer League. “I think this is a big loss to the club and football in general considering that we were in the process of repositioning the club and fight for a place back in the Premier Soccer League,’’ said Chunga. “I have worked closely with him since my arrival at the club, and he was someone who was focused, very approachable and always ready to lend his ear. “This is a sad moment for the club and the family.” Dube joined Chapungu leadership in 2009 as deputy secretary and was elevated to the post of secretary-general the same year. He briefly left the club in 2013, when he moved outside the country, but was back to take the same position in 2015. He served the club until his death. Chapungu governor, Bizeki Magadzire, told The Herald they lost a pillar of strength since Dube was the most experienced member of the club’s executive, having served under various management position, since 2009. “This is the most difficult period for the club. We have been robbed of a committed and dedicated member of the club,’’ he said. “Right now, the whole of Chapungu is distraught because Dube was the most experienced member we had in our structures. “Even when the club was relegated, he was working very hard with the other members, spearheading ways for Chapungu to get promoted again. “His experience and shrewd leadership will be missed. “Our thoughts and prayers are also with his family, at this difficult moment. We also pass our sincere condolences to the Sweswe family.” The deceased student pilot was the daughter of former FC Platinum coach, Lizwe Sweswe, and also a niece to ex-Zimbabwe international Thomas Sweswe. The two pilots were on a routine training flight from Josiah Tungamirai Air Force Base when the accident occurred on Tuesday afternoon. Condolence messages continued to pour in yesterday. “We are saddened to learn of the untimely passing of Chapungu FC secretary-general, Squadron Leader Mkhululi Dube,’’ the PSL said. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, Chapungu FC and the football family during this difficult time. “May his soul rest in peace.” Former Chapungu coach, Rodwell Dhlakama, described Dube as a hard-working professional. “He is one of the people who interviewed me when I came to Chapungu. He was quite a humble and hardworking professional. “He was a very passionate man who always wanted things done the proper way and for the good of the club. “Chapungu, and football in general, have lost a dedicated servant,” said Dhlakama.