The Herald Veronica Gwaze
DESPITE leaving his motherland at the age of six, Warriors’ vice-captain and versatile centre back Alec Mudimu demonstrates dedication and commitment that out-matches the years he has lived in a foreign land. Ordinarily it would be expected that he would have less emotional attachment to the country he left many years ago. The 25-year-old Sheriff Tiraspol, Moldova,  player is totally committed to play for his nation and whenever he gets a national team call-up, he doesn’t think twice about it. “A national team call-up is not anything to think twice about. I am always ready to do it unreservedly,” he says. Early this year, the Warrior established a foundation aimed at giving different forms of assistance to the under privileged in Zimbabwe. The non-profit organisation provides food, clothes, sanitary wear among other items to various families around the country. “I have wanted to do this for a long time. Zimbabwe is where my roots are so I can only try and do my part to help generations.” The lanky star is currently in the country with the Warriors for the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers return leg against Algeria this Monday. Mudimu’s love for the Warriors and the game are evident. Born in Harare in 1995, the lanky defender and his family relocated to Hertfordshire, England, soon after the death of his father. One day in 2007 when he was 12, their mother, Violet, a social worker was at work when his brother, Abel, who played soccer asked Mudimu to help him with a drill at a pitch close by. The quiet Mudimu remembers it as the day that changed his life. His brother, who now turns out for Spartan South Midlands League under Codicote Football Club, was impressed during the drill and persuaded Mudimu into football. Spartan South Midlands is an English football league covering northwest Greater London, Southern Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Hertfordshire. Mudimu, who was an athlete then, abandoned the track. He has since grown to be one of the most trusted and consistent players in the Warriors’ fold. “Football was never really my thing. I never imagined myself playing one day,” says Mudimu. He joined Sheffield juniors where he instantly became the coaches’ favourite. The first day’s experience was not as tough as he had imagined it to be and he recollects how much fun it was for him. In 2012, he joined Stalybridge Celtic before securing a place on the seniors’ squad the following year. He later moved to Radcliffe, Northwich Victoria, Stockport Town, and Cefn Druids in the Welsh Premier League, respectively before finding home at his current club. “To me soccer is a platform to express myself and the love that I have for my motherland and people,” he explains. “I lost my father when I was still a toddler, but putting on the Warriors’ jersey makes me feel very close to him and to my roots. “National duty is something that I do for my father. I never got a chance to do it for him when he was still alive. I believe he is always watching me from above. “For me, it is about having pride and honour of where I came from.” Mudimu describes his life as a “miracle” and always reflects on his first national team call-up in 2018 when the Warriors were still under Sunday Chidzambwa. Last year he briefly captained the Warriors against Somalia in the absence of skipper Knowledge Musona. They fell 1-0 in Somalia before a 3-1 victory in the return leg at National Sports Stadium. This was after a mere seven appearances on the national team. “I remember the day Warriors’ Manager, Wellington Mpandare, called inviting me for national duty. It felt like a dream. “It came as a surprise and a blessing at the same time.  So I took it to be a chance to play for my father and make him proud. “Since that day, I always do it for him and whenever I stare at the terraces it feels like he is there watching,” smiles Mudimu.    