The Herald Ishemunyoro Chingwere Business Reporter Food and drink processing concern, Nestle Zimbabwe, has ploughed in US$2,5 million in its cereals manufacturing plant expansion project that will boost local operations. The expansion will result in the Switzerland headquartered concern’s throughput increasing by 30 percent from the current capacity. It is aimed at further strategically positioning the company on the local market as well as boost its exports into the region. The expansion coincided with the launch of two new products, Nestle Cerevita Instant Sour Porridge and Nestle Cremora with Milk. Officiating at the launch of the new products as well as expansion programme yesterday, Industry and Commerce Minister Dr Sekai Nzenza, said the investment by Nestle Zimbabwe will go a long way in expediting the country’s industrialisation strategy. “I would like to commend Nestle Zimbabwe for this investment worth US$2,5 million, which will contribute towards our industrialisation agenda and improve capacity utilisation and employment creation in line with the recently launched National Development Strategy 1,” said Minister Nzenza. “The investment indeed attest to the confidence that your company has, in the potential and future of Zimbabwe,” she said. Minister Nzenza assured the Swiss behemoth that Government will continue to provide the required framework that allows private businesses to thrive. Speaking at the same event, Nestle market head for East and Southern Africa Mr Bruno Olierhoek, said the company is targeting to triple its US$400 000 monthly exports from Zimbabwe. “Our current exports average US$400 000 per month and the target is to triple that in the medium term,” he said. On new products, he said, “The new products fit into Nestlé’s Nutrition, Health and Wellness Strategy. Nestle Cerevita Instant Sour Porridge is fortified with iron and Vitamins B1, B5, and C which makes it a healthy and nutritious offering with a unique sour taste. Nestle Cremora with Milk is a coffee and tea enhancer with a new twist for that creamier taste.”