The Herald LONDON. — Zimbabwe-born British heavyweight boxer Derek Chisora’s “amazing options” for his next fight include a third battle with old rival Dillian Whyte, says manager David Haye. Chisora fell to a unanimous decision defeat to the unbeaten Oleksandr Usyk on Saturday night but still retains the hunger and ability to compete at the top level, according to Haye. “Seeing him compete with one of the top fighters on the planet shows me that we are doing the right things,” Haye told Sky Sports News. “In my opinion, he was really and truly fighting fit for 12 rounds. “This is just the beginning. He is raring to go. “He called me (Sunday) morning and said: ‘I want get straight back in there, I know that I can do better’. “There are some amazing options out there. “Joseph Parker was scheduled before the spider bite! “Dillian Whyte III? Who would not want to see that? “I can tell you for a fact – I was in both training camps for (the rematch with Whyte and then Usyk) and what Chisora did in training was significantly improved.” Whyte edged a split decision victory over Chisora in their first fight, then won the rematch with a vicious knockout. But Whyte’s immediate focus will be on a crunch rematch with Alexander Povetkin on November 21. Whyte was controlling his first fight with Povetkin until falling to a shuddering knockout which abruptly halted his world title ambitions. Chisora had rebounded with three impressive wins until running into Usyk at the weekend. The 42-fight veteran has shared a ring with Vitali Klitschko, Tyson Fury (twice), Kubrat Pulev and Carlos Takam and, despite now being 36, has no intention of retiring yet. “I feel great, just disappointed,” Chisora said immediately after losing to Usyk. “Yeah, 100 per cent (I thought I won). I was pushing the pace. Yeah, I gave a couple of rounds away, but I was pushing the pace. But the judges saw it a different way. “Half of the time, I’m setting the pace, he’s not setting the pace. I gave a couple of rounds away, 100 per cent, and he caught me with some good shots. But not with like painful shots.” — Sky Sports.