The Herald Crime Reporter
Drivers and owners of kombis not registered under the Zupco franchise and pirate taxi operators that continue to run illegal public transport services in violation of Covid-19 regulations risk being arrested, police have said. Police are also aware of some operators who are removing registration number plates and replacing window panes with wooden panels to avoid having these smashed by baton-wielding law enforcers. The public have been advised to report any cases of police officers demanding bribes from the illegal operators so that the law will take its course against corrupt law enforcers. Police recently launched an operation targeting illegal kombi and pirate taxi operators and over 21 000 such vehicles have been impounded countrywide since March. Only Zupco is allowed to run urban public transport services, although it can franchise private buses and kombis, while private bus operators on intercity routes need to comply with a raft of safety and health measures. Besides the kombis and pirate taxis, more than 9 200 vehicles without registration number plates have also been impounded, as some of them are suspected to be used by criminals, but in any case are on the roads illegally. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said the operation was continuing until order returned to the roads. Impounded vehicles will not be released while the drivers will be fined or sent to court. Asst Comm Nyathi said the police does not tolerate any form of corruption and officers engaged in such activities will be arrested. Police are investigating a complaint in which a Harare woman recently alleged that she was robbed of US$200 by police officers manning a roadblock at the intersection of Borrowdale Road and Churchill Avenue. More details will be availed soon, said Asst Comm Nyathi. Private kombis and pirate taxis remain banned from carrying commuters and travellers as part of precautions to contain the spread of Covid-19, although owners of suitable kombis can apply to join the Zupco franchise. In a statement recently, the Ministry of Local Government and Public Works insisted that only Zupco was allowed to ferry passengers. Zupco, and the private buses and kombis operating under its franchise, meet set health and safety standards that minimise risk to passengers. To register under the franchise, operators should have a current vehicle licence, vehicle insurance, certificate of fitness, passenger insurance and VID clearance. Drivers of the vehicles under the Zupco franchise should have a valid driver’s licence, medical fitness, retest, defensive driving certificate and Government authority. Kombi or bus operators under Zupco have the bus company’s stickers.