The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Idols SA’s season 16 showstopper week was uneventful and failed to stop any traffic. The live performances were tepid and the judges — as well as viewers — didn’t hold back in telling the top seven that there were no fireworks and goosebumps. Mr Music told Sowetan that he tried his best with his rendition of Blaq Diamond’s Woza My Love — even after Somizi and Randall thought it was lukewarm. “I had such stage fright just from hearing showstopper. But I managed to give it my all. The showstopper week taught me something different from my past live performances,” Mr Music said. “It taught me that it’s not only about singing, but you need to perform and engage. As Somizi said when he heard ‘showstopper’ he expected something big.” The 21-year-old from Richards Bay, in KwaZulu-Natal, admitted that he needed the magic that came with his performance of Into Ingawe by Ami Faku and Sun-EL Musician two weeks ago. “I have been thinking about that performance the entire night because that was a showstopper,” Mr Music said. “I did those dance moves on the spot, none of it was planned. But last night I had a whole choreography and it just didn’t connect 100%.” For Bongi, who performed Beyoncé’s Déjà Vu, she wished in hindsight she was accompanied by dancers with choreography incorporated. “I’m just glad it’s over. It was the most challenging so far. I have been doing slow jams throughout the show and it was the first time I did something up-tempo with no choreography,” Bongi said. “If I had dancers on stage they would have made me look more energetic. I was briefed not to move by the production team. So imagine singing Beyoncé and just standing there the entire time. Given the opportunity I would have moved.” Her performance polarised the judges, with only Randall giving her the thumbs up. Unathi said Bongi has had better performances, while Somizi thought it was a jazz version of Beyoncé and compared her to Jill Scott. “There is this thing that’s going around that I look like Jill Scott. So as soon as he [Somizi] said it I was like ‘here we go again’,” Bongi said. “I used to teach opera and choral music, so I come from a different industry. I want to grow musically and with performances. I don’t want to stick to what I’m used to.” Brandon said the judges’ comments on his performance of Circles by Post Malone left him confused. “Unathi was like she expected more from me. OK, I get that but I’m not a dancer. I tried and stepped out of my comfort zone,” Brandon said. The 23-year-old singer from Barberton in Mpumalanga said he was happy with his performance despite the harsh criticism. “Some people love the fact that I moved around the stage, while others are like it wasn’t the best performance. I would not have done anything different; it was supposed to look like that,” Brandon said. “Because it’s showstopper week everyone is expecting you to fly around. But I came bloodied instead. Showstopper week has been the craziest. Expectations are just [so] high.” — Sowetan.