The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter FORMER Sables vice-captain, Tichafara Makwanya, has challenged rugby players to invest in sports administration badges every time an opportunity comes along. The Old Hararians skipper, who is now getting into rugby administration after accumulating some coaching badges during lockdown, said it is always good for athletes to prepare for the future. Makwanya believes the lockdown reminded the players that they can’t rely on just playing. A flyhalf, who has seen it all in the game, including representing his country with distinction, Makwanya is one of the players who have been trying to make the best out of the lockdown period. “My opinion is that after the Covid-19 pandemic experience, we will have a different perspective on how we approach everything,’’ he said. “As players, we have a huge role to play and entertain people but, for 2020, it is a different situation. “I think this gives us an insight to prepare for such scenarios as we have shifted focus and I believe I will venture into rugby administration in the near                      future. “I think upcoming youngsters should also take up such initiatives, like getting their coaching badges, while they are still active. “They should not wait until retirement age. “My issue is not for everyone to become a coach but anything to do with administration of the sport. “We never had enough administrators and that void should be covered by former players.’’ Makwanya also feels their sport is being neglected by those who are supposed to ensure the sport returns. “I think we have a high-risk sport but authorities should do something for the players as they are going through some tough time. “Most youngsters were dependent on playing rugby and now they are at home so the Zimbabwe Rugby Union should try and help them. “We know it is difficult but associations should be geared for such situations and help the players. “At the moment, I am back in the gym, which I resumed some three weeks ago, and I am continuing to work hard. “There will be a time when the sport will be given an opportunity to resume so athletes should not lose hope,’’ said Makwanya. The player, who was voted in the Sables Team of the Decade, was once dumped by coach Peter de Villiers.