The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM goalkeeper, Petros Mhari, says they want to better their group stage showing in the upcoming CAF Champions League campaign. The three-time Zimbabwe champions have failed to make it past the group stages so far in their continental adventure. They will be attempting to break that ceiling, this time around but they will have to first find a formula to clear the preliminary and first round hurdles. FC Platinum have not been active, for the past seven months, and only regrouped for team training four weeks ago. Mhari, one of the most experienced players in coach Hendrikus Pieter De Jongh’s side, believes the team will better their previous showing. The miners have reached the group stages in the past two campaigns. “Firstly, it’s good to be back out again and doing something that we’re all passionate about,’’ he said. “Everyone is raring to go, and excited about the upcoming CAF Champions League games. “We are a young and ambitious club, so, we’re hoping to reach the mini league phase again. “Hopefully, this time around, we will have better fortunes because we’ve struggled to make an impact in the group stages. “We’re still a young club when it comes to the CAF Champions League. For us, every campaign we’re involved is a learning experience.’’ He said the newboys could give them a huge boost. “We still have a lot of the guys that helped us reach the mini league phase in the past two seasons, so, the experience we’ve had, combined with the talent of the new crop of guys with regional and international experience, gives us the confidence to go the extra mile,’’ said Mhari. “We’ve been there already and we know how to conduct the business. “Our motto at FC Platinum has always been taking each game as it comes, that in itself drives us to do better than the last game. “No man is an island and football is ultimately about team work. “We can only bring success to the club if we unite and push for the same goal — that is reaching the mini-league phase.” Mhari said his team remain at a slight disadvantage since their opponents have been training, and playing competitive matches, while the miners were in lockdown until four weeks ago. “We are definitely at a disadvantage because the local league has been inactive for the entire year,’’ he said. “It will be a huge challenge, going into the CAF Champions League but we’ve had ample time now to get back to full fitness and gel as a unit. “Hopefully, we will be able to play a few friendly games, which will help test where we are as a group, physically and mentally, before plunging into the CAF Champions League.” The club are yet to appoint Lizwe Sweswe’s replacement. Sweswe left his post as De Jongh’s assistant coach last month. The Dutch mentor was expected to name his assistant, a few weeks later, but he hasn’t done that as yet. Club spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, said they were happy with the work being done by De Jongh, together with his remaining assistant Patrick Mandizha. “I don’t think we are in a rush to find Lizwe (Sweswe’s) replacement as we speak,’’ she said. “The main focus of the technical team, as well as everyone involved at the moment, has been about preparing the club physically, and technically, for the upcoming CAF Champions League matches. “We are satisfied with the work the coaches are doing. “We will announce once we find a replacement for Sweswe but, at the moment, the coach (De Jongh) is working with his assistant (Mandizha) well.’’