The Herald Sports Reporter Sports Reporter The Zimbabwe Karate Union have risen to the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic by focusing on the competitive exploits of their semi-contact affiliates. This follows the invitation of Zim Ninja Academy to take part in the Q Challenge International Kata Championships. The championships, which got underway on Monday, are running until November 22 and will be held on a global scale under the auspices of the Mediterranean Karate Alliance (MALTA). Contestants from all over the world will upload videos of technical demonstrations, for evaluation by an international panel of judges. Participants have up to November 22 to submit their videos and the results are expected in December. Zim Ninja Academy practice both kobudo and karate and they were invited for the championships following their success at the World Online Kata Championships in September. The limelight will be on Vincent Fambira, who won gold in the last competition. Zim Ninja Academy founder and chief instructor, Wilfred Mashaya, said preparations were proceeding well and will be registering, and submitting their videos, this coming week. “We were invited in this Karate Kata tournament after our successful story in the kobudo tournament. “We are really working hard for this tournament. ‘’We have Vincent Fambira, we have also considered our female athletes and children. ‘‘I think we are likely to field about two, or three ladies, then three or four guys and, maybe, three children. “So far, the tournament has opened but we hope that any day next week that’s when we will register and submit our videos and results will be out on the 6th of December,” Mashaya said. Besides Fambira, in the men’s section, some of the fighters they are considering for the championships are Prince Chabanga, Peter Murapa, Takudzwa Ngirazi, Fredson Mhondiwa, Brian Shepeni, Ephraim Murwisi and Tatenda Mapigoti. Danai Guyo, Mitchell Machingura and Tariro Ndlovu, are expected to compete in the women’s section. In the children’s section there is Blessed Kanda, Seamus Bhasikoro and Wilfred Junior Mashaya. They are still finalising the team. “It’s just for coloured belts to get exposure in the field of kata competition so, in this, I am not competing but I am actually trying to groom them, together with my technical director, Shylock Nevanji. “We are trying to make sure we groom a team that will represent our academy, and nation, since we got an invitation from MALTA as an academy after our previous  participation. ‘‘We are still working hard and we hope that either we win, or lose, we shall do our best as an academy representing the country,” Mashaya said. ZKU president, Steve Charandura, is confident the representatives will do well. “They have been preparing for such a competition and we feel they are ready,’’ Charandura said. This follows the invitation of Zim Ninja Academy to take part in the Q Challenge International Kata Championships. The championships, which got underway on Monday, are running until November 22 and will be held on a global scale under the auspices of the Mediterranean Karate Alliance (MALTA). Contestants from all over the world will upload videos of technical demonstrations, for evaluation by an international panel of judges. Participants have up to November 22 to submit their videos and the results are expected in December. Zim Ninja Academy practice both kobudo and karate and they were invited for the championships following their success at the World Online Kata Championships in September. The limelight will be on Vincent Fambira, who won gold in the last competition. Zim Ninja Academy founder and chief instructor, Wilfred Mashaya, said preparations were proceeding well and will be registering, and submitting their videos, this coming week. “We were invited in this Karate Kata tournament after our successful story in the kobudo tournament. “We are really working hard for this tournament. ‘’We have Vincent Fambira, we have also considered our female athletes and children. ‘‘I think we are likely to field about two, or three ladies, then three or four guys and, maybe, three children. “So far, the tournament has opened but we hope that any day next week that’s when we will register and submit our videos and results will be out on the 6th of December,” Mashaya said. Besides Fambira, in the men’s section, some of the fighters they are considering for the championships are Prince Chabanga, Peter Murapa, Takudzwa Ngirazi, Fredson Mhondiwa, Brian Shepeni, Ephraim Murwisi and Tatenda Mapigoti. Danai Guyo, Mitchell Machingura and Tariro Ndlovu, are expected to compete in the women’s section. In the children’s section there is Blessed Kanda, Seamus Bhasikoro and Wilfred Junior Mashaya. They are still finalising the team. “It’s just for coloured belts to get exposure in the field of kata competition so, in this, I am not competing but I am actually trying to groom them, together with my technical director, Shylock Nevanji. “We are trying to make sure we groom a team that will represent our academy, and nation, since we got an invitation from MALTA as an academy after our previous  participation. ‘‘We are still working hard and we hope that either we win, or lose, we shall do our best as an academy representing the country,” Mashaya said. ZKU president, Steve Charandura, is confident the representatives will do well. “They have been preparing for such a competition and we feel they are ready,’’ Charandura said.