The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CRICKET players from Takashinga Patriots cannot wait for the trophy presentation ceremony after the side were confirmed champions of the inaugural National Premier League. The Highfield-based side finished their campaign earlier than their main rivals, MidWest Rhinos, who dated basement side Great Zimbabwe Patriots on Sunday. MidWest Rhinos beat their opponents to go level, on 60 points, with Takashinga. However, Takashinga bagged the inaugural 45-over match title because they had a superior net run rate of 1.502 against Rhinos’ 0.698. Takashinga will pocket US$10 000 for winning the title. Coach Erick Chauluka yesterday said his camp was bouncing with joy after their success story. “We had the confidence that we could win this tournament considering we sat on top of the table, going into the final round of the matches. “But, the guys were not sure what would happen on Sunday when Rhinos played their last game. “We are happy it has been confirmed. Everyone is excited and the guys cannot wait for the trophy presentation. “It is a result of dedication’, and hard work, from the guys. “They really wanted to win it and they invested much of their time and commitment in preparation,” said Chauluka. The NPL was launched by Zimbabwe Cricket recently to provide a platform for increased participation, and opportunities, for upcoming cricketers. Chauluka believes this will open doors for many marginalised players into the provincial franchise sides and eventually the national team. “I think that is the best move by ZC because now we are able to tap into the talents that we previously had not had the opportunity to see. “The NPL is good for our cricket development. “The selectors now don’t have to look at the usual names but they now have the luxury to spread their nets wider. “The tournament certainly provides a bigger pool for selection of the franchise and national team players. At the end our cricket will be more competitive. “Look at the guys that are leading the bowling charts. Previously, they were not known but their statistics speak of the potential they have. “From Takashinga, I must say, I was particularly impressed by Trevor Mutsamba. “This boy did not play the first few games because he was overshadowed by the national team players, who later left for Pakistan, for the limited-overs series currently in progress. “So, when he got his chance, he picked up a fiver in his first match and has been very consistent with the ball. He is definitely one player to look forward to in the future,” said Chauluka. Malcom Chikukwa’s amazing bowling figures of 7-16, in Gladiators win over Amakhosi in their last match of the tournament, took him top of the bowling charts with 23 scalps to his name. Tanatswa Bechani of Queens Sports Club was consistent, throughout the tournament, and was second on the charts with 22 wickets. He was followed by the Takashinga duo of Roy Kaia and Tapiwa Mufudza, who took 20 wickets apiece, with Brandon Mavuta (19) completing the top five. Sadly, the batting in this tournament has been atrocious. Teams have been bowled out for ridiculously low scores. There were only three centuries in 36 matches and Tarisai Musakanda was the highest run scorer after amassing 307 runs at an average of 38.38. Brian Mudzingayama (264), Kevin Kasuza (258), Roy Kaia (241) and Tony Munyonga (219) made the top five. “I think the bowling was brilliant but the batting has to improve. The guys need to put in more work into their batting, they need to show hunger and try to get more runs,” said Chauluka.