The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Under-17 men’s national football team coach, Tafadzwa Mashiri, says his team has been placed in a tough group in the COSAFA Championships. The tournament will be held in South Africa later this month. The junior men’s tournament will run from November 19 to 29. The Young Warriors were placed in Group A, which is headlined by hosts South Africa and last year’s two semi-finalists Angola and Eswatini. Defending champions Zambia headline Group B, which also has Botswana, Malawi and Comoros Islands. The top two teams in each group will qualify for the semi-finals with the two finalists earning a place at next year’s Africa Cup of Nations. Zimbabwe’s junior teams are making a return to the regional tournament after missing out last year’s edition. “It is a tough group given that Angola beat Eswatini 5-0 to win bronze in last year’s edition. “South Africa has a very sound junior development, as witnessed by their Under-23 team, which went all the way. “I think, it is going to be interesting. “But, football is football, and we hope to do well considering we are coming from inactivity,” said Mashiri. The coach said they will draw the bulk of players from the Zimbabwe Copa Coca-Cola team, which participated in the Africa Cup in Kenya last year, and reached the final. “It is unfortunate that our junior teams didn’t take part last year. The Under-17 is a tricky age group because you would be dealing with a new crop every year,’’ he said. “There is no experience to talk about so it is a difficult situation but that’s what development is all about. “There was no football, the better part of the year, schools were closed and junior leagues are our hunting grounds but they were inactive. “But, we are targeting the Under-16 Copa team that went to Kenya and went all the way to the final. “They are still eligible, so we think we will build our team around them and hope the international exposure we will come in handy. “Given the circumstances, it was prudent to have more time but we will work with the available time. “We are going to compete, it is good to set targets, everyone wants to play and win at a higher level but we are not going to put ourselves under pressure.” The tournament will begin soon after the senior Women’s COSAFA tournament which gets underway today. South Africa will also host the Men’s Under -20 tournament, which will run from December 3 to 13, at the Nelson Mandela Bay. The Zimbabwe Under-20 team was again drawn in Group A which has South Africa, Mozambique and Lesotho. Last year’s champions, Zambia, are in Group B together with Malawi, Namibia and Comoros. Angola lead Group C, which has three teams, with Eswatini and Botswana providing the other members. Again, the two finalists will qualify for the Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations finals. ZIFA are expected to name the Under-20 team coach this week with the Under-17 team set to be go into camp by the end of week. COSAFA Men’s U-17 Championship draw: Group A South Africa Angola Zimbabwe Eswatini Group B Zambia Botswana Malawi Comoros Islands COSAFA Men’s U-20 Championship draw: Group A South Africa Mozambique Zimbabwe Lesotho Group B Zambia Malawi Namibia Comoros Islands Group C Angola Eswatini Botswana