The Herald Bongani Ndlovu
Bulawayo Bureau
Nominees for the Pogues Zim Hip Hop Awards have been unveiled and it is a battle for supremacy between R Peels who has eight nods, Asaph with seven and Crooger and Holy Ten who have five each. The awards which will be held at the Rainbow Towers in Harare on December 12 are celebrating 10 years. Although they will be streamed live, they will also have a live audience. Unfortunately, two categories Best Club DJ and Best Dance act were scrapped from the list because of the Covid-19 pandemic that affected the categories. Personalities Mbo Mahocs and Ben Chest announced the nominees through an event that was live streamed on the Zim Hip Hop Awards page yesterday. There was a moment of silence for Cal Vin who was described as one of the pioneers of Zim Hip Hop. Competing for Best Male are R Peels, Asaph, Crooger, Ti Gonzi, Holy Ten and Jungle Loco, while the Best Female is pitting Preshy, Kikky BadA$$, Natasha Muz, Sibo, Tashamiswa and Hanna. Gunning for Song of the year are Asaph feat Msizkay’s — Aspheli Moya, Holy Ten’s — Ndaremerwa, R.Peels — Eke, Crisswiss and the dot — Bad Vibes and Crooger — Ginde. Zim Hip Hop Awards director Aldrian “Beefy” Harrison said choosing the nominees was difficult as the artistes put in a lot of work this year. “It’s been a difficult year because a lot of artistes put work out there so the judges had it difficult,” said Beefy. He said preparations for the award ceremony are going well. “We’ll have to abide by the Covid-19 regulations for our preparations,” he said. “For now, we’re still trying to see the best way to put them ou,t but we’re definitely going to stream them live.”  Below is the Pogues Zim Hip Hop Awards full list of the nominees:  Best Male Asaph Holy Ten Crooger Jungle Loco T Gonzi  Best Female Preshy Kikky Bad A$$ Natasha Muz Sibo Tashamiswa Hanna  Best New comer Boy Nino Holy Ten Rockie DoUb Denim Woods Kae Chaps  Best Hip-hop duo or group Crisswiss and the dot Hitmusic Empire Uchiha Empire Clan Cottage 47 Pathun Place  Best Album Bata Mastreets — Jungle Loco Muchinjiko — R.Peels Blood Line — Kikky Bad Ass Twenty-Five — Probeatz Room 328 Bridge View — Crisswiss and the dot  Song of the year Asaph feat Msizkay — Aspheli Moya Holy Ten — Ndaremerwa Crisswiss and the dot — Bad Vibes Crooger — Ginde  Best producer Afro Zenda Jamal John the Producer Mars on the beat P2Dah Oh  Best Collaboration Asaph feat Msizkay — Aspheli Moya Crooger, Asaph T Gonzi — Ginde Crisswiss and the dot — Bad Vibes Boy Nino feat Emtee No problems Rockie DoUb ft Tha Dawg, Asaph, VIC JITA – Monate Fela  Best brand supporting local hip hop Big Boss Kingsville Clothing Team Legacy Hit Music Empire Rednation Live  Best Promoter Big Boss Preezo Cottage 47 Chap Moreno Rednation Live  Best Diaspora Reck 442 Cap City Dimitri and the Scarecrow Neville Sigauke Mlue Jay  Best Radio DJ Thorne LaRock Lady Kay and PD tha Ghost Mox Prometheus Mike Sprinter  Best gospel act NTA Caespedo Courtney Antipas Drummer Boy Kenny  Best Under ground Mitch Uta Major Prodi Mob Figgazs Michael Chiunda Prozac  Best Alternative Hilzy Kae Chaps HFiles Taylor Wayne Indigo Saint  Best Online Media Rednation Live The Juice Magazine ZimSphere ZimBuzz Keep it Real Fridays  Best Journalist CTO Banks Bongani Ndlovu Ano Shumba Takudzwa Kadzura Elmond Chibaya  Hip Hop Personality of the year Soko Matemai Holy Ten Asaph R Peels Video and Video director of the year Takura — Its ok, not to be OK Asaph feat Msizkay — Aspheli moya Crooger — Ginde R Peels — Andiroya TSG — Hona  Best Hip-Hop hustle KingsVille Clothing Crooger Holy Ten Cottage 47  Best Hip-Hop verse- Sweet 16 Soko Matemai — Level up Asaph — Ginde Michael Chuinda — hit lab cypher Holy Ten — Ndaremrewa T Gonzi — Devil’s a liar  People’s Choice Holly Ten R Peels T Gonzi Asaph Probeatz Takura