The Herald Business Reporter Zimbabwe’s largest milling company, National Foods Limited (NFL), yesterday donated food hampers worth US$50 000 to 100 charity organisations as part of its centenary celebrations. The company was established in 1920 and produces a broad range of basic foods including maize meal, flour, cooking oil,  rice, salt, snacks, biscuits, pasta, sugar beans, baked beans, popcorn, as well as soap and a full range of animal feeds. Handing over the hampers to the charities on behalf of the company , Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Professor Paul Mavima, said the donation would go a long way in assisting the organisations that were reeling under the effects of Covid-19 and successive droughts. “As Government, we would like to applaud this wonderful gesture by National Foods in empowering these 100 charities, the food hampers will go a long way in complimenting whatever reserves were there, we know most vulnerable people are reeling under the effects of the pandemic, “he said. Prof Mavima hailed National Foods for taking a leading role in leveraging on home grown products. “Let me take this opportunity to mention that National Foods has played a leading role in encouraging the usage of home products through the “Buy Zimbabwe” mantra. This has seen an improved mark in the uptake of locally produced goods,” he said. Speaking at the same event, group chief executive officer Mr Michael Lashbrook, said his organisation takes pride in its social investments. “The company’s philosophy is to plough back to the communities where it operates in by enhancing lives, improving well-being and building lasting social capital,” he said. “National Foods has three social investment categories, namely vulnerable groups, community and strategic support. “The company’s community support includes schools, hospitals, church-run institutions and disadvantaged communities along these lines commits to long-term social investments in the communities as part of their agenda to plough back to the communities within which the company operates”. Receivers of the hampers hailed the donation and called upon other corporates to take a leaf from National Foods. “I would like to thank this gesture by National Foods, it is a shot in the arm for all these charity organisations gathered here to receive hampers. “We call upon other organisations to follow suit in helping the vulnerable groups in communities” said Bumhudzo Old Peoples’ Home project manager, Major Lovemore Meda. “We did not do well  nationally in terms of agriculture the previous  season and the Government is aware of the situation especially to vulnerable groups. “We hope and pray more generous organisations like NFL come aboard,” said Africa Arise Trust executive director Ms Samantha Sibanda.