The Herald Bongani Ndlovu Showbiz Correspondent The Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards (RoilBAAs) was successfully held at the Large City Hall on Saturday, with a number of musicians and other artists walking away with gongs. Ngoma Ingoma group’s “Amalobolo” won the Song of the Year, while internet sensation and Nkayi based Sikhosana Band won the Outstanding Newcomer. The band won with his song Isomiso, which is about the global pandemic and how it has ravished the world. Renowned author and historian, Pathisa Nyathi was awarded the Life Achievement Award, which was befitting. Nyathi has been consistent in his works from acting as Nare on Kukhulwa Kokuphela, to writing over 50 books on the history of the country and the traditions of Zimbabwe. “Arts identify us as a people,” said Nyathi after being named the winner. “Arts give us our identity, arts locate us in space and time. For me the journey has been very long, as I sat down, I was thinking when did the journey start. It started in 1969 when I was in Form Three. “But I am still going strong even today. There’s nothing more pleasing, more satisfying, to be honoured in your life time, not be recognised and acknowledged posthomously.” Nyathi said as he turned 70 next year, he will share the journey of his life, hinting that a book was in the pipeline. The awards started off with a tribute to the late Zim hip-hop king Cal Vin, who was killed following a hit and run accident metres from his Luveve 5 home last month. Cal Vin’s song Thabani was the backdrop that was used to pay tribute to him through a live band and a grouping of dancers and back up singers. Outstanding male nominees, Asaph, Msizkay, Hwabaraty and Madlela took the lead to sing along to Cal Vin’s hit song, Banjalo Abantu. At the end of the performance, Cal Vin’s mother Sinikiwe Luphahla, was brought on stage to present the Mgcini Calvin Nhliziyo Hip Hop award that was named after her late son. The awards made people reflect and above all honoured the artistes who have worked hard for the past year. The show started very late, although invited guests and nominees were supposed to rock the red carpet at 4pm, with the event closing at around 9PM to beat the Covid-19 curfew starting at 10PM. It was just before 9PM when the police went on stage and told people to start moving out of the venue so that they move to their homes on time. RoilBAA spokesperson Nkululeko Nkala, thanked police for their sterling work during the night. “For the record, we cleared the event so that people can beat curfew time,” he said. “We ran late and we want to thank the police for their patience and understanding work.” But it was a celebration of arts excellence in Bulawayo province, touted as the arts and culture hub of Zimbabwe. The year 2020 has been a difficult one, as art activities were cut short because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of the artistes decided to soldier on and used the pandemic as an inspiration. The few spaces that artistes were operating from were shutdown and many lost their income. Many artistes this year suffered under the Covid-19 pandemic and the awards rewarded them for their arts excellence and reliance during these trying times. The RoilBAA awards were nearly scrapped because of the Covid-19 pandemic.