The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter HOCKEY Association of Zimbabwe are not wasting any time in the preparations for next year’s Central-South Africa tournament and the Junior World Cup qualifier. The national squads are scheduled to start practice sessions between today and tomorrow.  The national association have secured the training venue at St John’s College in Harare. HAZ secretary-general, Sarah Bennett, said they were now waiting for confirmation on the availability of Khumalo Hockey Stadium in Bulawayo. “We will be using St John’s College astro turf and we are still waiting for confirmation on Khumalo Stadium in Bulawayo. “The squads will be training on the astro turf every weekend with fitness sessions during the week,” said Bennett. Zimbabwe’s senior men and women teams are set to compete in the Central-South Africa tournament. It is a qualifier for the Africa Cup of Nations. They will be joined by six other countries – Botswana, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Swaziland and Zambia – for the tournament which will take place in Harare from February 19 to 27. The Under-21 men and women have the Junior World Cup qualifier to be held in Ghana, in March. The national squads were announced in September and coaches have been working with players online from their respective bases. But, they will now step up the preparations with group trainings and also start working towards having the final teams for the assignments.  The senior teams will be the first to get the group trainings underway. The national association have also set up a Local Organising Committee to assist with fundraising for the upcoming competitions. “Now, the national squads can start practice sessions on the astro turf and, hopefully, we can get financial support to cover the costs for the astro turf. “The coaches, and management, have done a great job in keeping the players fit and doing online video sessions. “A Local Organising Committee has been set up to help find the finances to support all the teams and, hopefully, we can get some corporates to come through and support us. “It’s been a tough year for everyone but any support we can get is greatly appreciated,” said Bennett. Under-21 men’s coach, Fidelis Majuba, said they were expecting to have a fitness test this month where they are likely to start trimming the squad of 30. With players dotted across the country, besides national camps, they will also have regional camps with some expected to meet in Chiredzi while others will meet in Harare and Bulawayo. “After that we are definitely going to withdraw some of the players and then, in December, we anticipate that we will have a couple of camps in the first week in Harare and another one in Bulawayo,” said Majuba.