The Herald Joseph Madzimure Arts Reporter THE singer who made the popular “ED Pfee” song, Chief Hwenje, born Admire Sanyanga Sibanda, is back with a new album with nine tracks, a Christmas gift to his legions of fans. “Polloniaum 210” is the name of the new album, a collaboration of a number of talented musicians from different genres. He collaborated with musicians such as Mechanic Manyeruke, Baba Harare, Nicholas Zakaria, Mathias Mhere, Suluman Chimbetu, Obert Moyo, Romeo Gasa and Norman Tapambwa. The nine-track album chronicles the journey travelled by President Mnangagwa to the highest office in Zimbabwe, how he survived the poison from the G40 cabal, how he survived the bombing attack at the White City Stadium in Bulawayo and his efforts in transforming the country’s economy. Some of Chief Hwenje’s hit songs, which are getting airplay on radio are “Ndiye Mambo” and “Naison Unedzungu”. Speaking to The Herald Arts yesterday, Chief Hwenje said the collaboration with a number of musicians on the album was a sign of unity. “The song ‘Ndiye Mambo’ chronicles the journey travelled by President Mnangagwa,” he said. “We are also looking at his achievements so far such as the construction of the New Parliament Building in Mt Hampden, the rehabilitation of the Beitbridge-Harare Highway, construction of Marovanyati Dam, rehabilitation of Hwange Power Station, among other major projects to transform the livelihoods of the people.” Chief Hwenje said he is working on a video called “Mahwihwi”, which will show the projects carried out by President Mnangagwa’s administration. “The video will be out very soon,” he said. “We want to produce a quality video, which attracts the young and the elder generation. They should know what is happening across the country.” Chief Hwenje has been in the music industry for many years, starting as a gospel musician and working with several musicians before deciding to go it alone. In 2014, he hogged the limelight after doing a celebratory song for Shabanie Mine Football Club titled “Mabvaru Daira” during their campaign in the Super 8 trophy. He became known as “ Chief Hwenje” in the mining town because of his songs that consistently reminded people of his totem.