The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter PROMISING triathlete, Matthew Denslow, says he is looking forward to taking part in one of his favourite competitions, the Penhalonga event, next month. Denslow moved to the United Kingdom in September to pursue his studies but is back home on a break until mid-January. He will be part of the athletes on course from December 12 and 13. The competition in Penhalonga is one of the exciting events on the local calendar, used to prepare athletes for the National Championships and the South Africa Championships. “It’s very nice to be back home, I’m enjoying time with family and friends and some warm weather. “I will be competing in Penhalonga, it is one of my favourite local races. Unfortunately, because of the virus, there haven’t been any official events in the UK. “Penhalonga will be my last race of the year so I expect promising results. I want to end the year on a good note,” said Denslow. With more exposure now, Denslow is looking at making to make a big impression as he hopes to make it for bigger events in the future. Last year, he won the Bonaqua ATU Junior Africa Cup men’s race and made his debut in the elite men this year. “I’m in a fantastic training environment in the UK. I’m very happy where I am and I’m training with some top quality athletes. ‘’Next year, I will move up to elite and Under-23 so, if races resume as I hope they will, you will see me competing on the elite and Under-23 level. “I’m optimistic about Troutbeck next year, it would be fantastic to race there again,” said Denslow. The event in Penhalonga will feature selection races for youth and juniors. A couple of selection events have already been held in Mount Pleasant and the competition in Penhalonga brings in another dimension with the course a bit tough. National coach, Pamela Fulton, said Penhalonga is part of the build-up to the National Championships at Troutbeck and South Africa Championships. “Penhalonga is one of our few venues with safe open water swimming, free from bilharzia and crocodiles. ‘’It, therefore, provides the opportunity for our athletes to practice open water swimming in preparation for our National Championships in Troutbeck and then South Africa Championships. “Penhalonga is a very demanding course as the bike section starts off with an approximately 300m steep climb out of Smallbridge dam up onto the main road. ‘’The course is undulating so it gives our athletes the opportunity to compete under very different conditions to what they experience at Mount Pleasant.