The Herald Battery minerals company  Prospect Resources says it is setting up a pilot plant to process  samples for assessment by current and potential customers. The Australian listed firm is developing the Arcadia Lithium mine  situated about 38km  east of the capital. In a statement, the company said the flotation pilot plant would  produce samples for customers in the technical and chemical markets to  obtain product qualification and maximise market demand for Arcadia’s  products. “The plant will initially produce bulk samples of 500t of petalite and  120t of spodumene concentrates for customer qualification,” it said. The pilot plant would demonstrate Prospect’s ability to produce  high purity products at planned volumes. “Samples will be sent to current and potential off-take partners in H1  2021.” Prospect managing director Sam Hosack said: “Our current key focus is  to operate a pilot plant to replicate the Arcadia flow-sheet to produce  high purity petalite and spodumene. The pilot plant delivers a number of  key objectives for customers, project finance parties and investors in  de-risking the Arcadia project. It is a major milestone that we have  secured the long-lead purchases.” “Prospect has unique geology at Arcadia allowing for production of high  purity products that attract premium pricing from both the technical and  chemical market. The flotation process, together with the Arcadia  project, offers an attractive solution for customers seeking long term,  high quality and consistent supply. “The samples will be used for qualification processes with customers we  are dealing with as well as to approach additional customers and grow  market demand for Arcadia’s high purity products,” he added. The company said Front End Engineering and Design (FEED) will be  undertaken using information gathered from the pilot plant. FEED is an engineering design approach used to control project expenses  and thoroughly plan a project before engineering, procurement and  construction. “This will determine the phasing, scale of growth and nominal capacity  of the Arcadia project. The strategy for the phasing of development will  be clarified with the CAPEX estimates from FEED. It is planned that FEED  will be completed in H1 2021, which will include a period of operational  observation. Any modifications, improvements or enhancements identified  during the piloting phase will be adequately incorporated into the FEED  study,” the company said. — New Ziana.