The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
FORMER Zimbabwe captain, Elton Chigumbura, will double up playing and coaching roles in the upcoming 2020-21 domestic cricket season. The all-rounder was named one of the assistant coaches at Eagles in the technical appointments made by Zimbabwe Cricket at their last board meeting on Wednesday. Chigumbura, who is now in the twilight of his career, announced his retirement from international cricket during the recent tour of Pakistan. He had played 14 Tests, 213 ODIs and 57 T20I matches, when he pulled the curtain down on a career that spanned 16 years. However, the 34-year-old is still available for domestic cricket, where he will be playing for Eagles, when the first class league gets underway on December 3. ZC are hoping that his experience will help inspire the new generation of cricketers, who are set to step up on the stage, as the veteran hard-hitting batsman edges closer to his final exit from the game. The association said they were looking to tap into the expertise of senior players after they also gave player/assistant coaching roles to Cephas Zhuwao, Chris Mpofu, Njabulo Ncube and Shingi Masakadza. ZC also resolved at their board meeting, to bring back Masvingo-based first class franchise, Southern Rocks. The outfit last played in the elite domestic competitions in the 2013-14 season when it was dissolved by ZC as part of the streamlining exercise recommended by the International Cricket Council. They have returned as replacement for the Alistair Campbell High Performance Centre team, which failed to have a new academy intake this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Rocks will be under the guidance of Shepherd Makunura, who leaves Mountaineers, following a successful run that saw him leading the side to an unprecedented three straight Logan Cup titles in 2017, 2018 and 2019. He returns to Rocks, where he was part of the team when the Masvingo-based franchise lifted the Metbank Pro40 tournament in 2011. ZC indicated they were hunting for a new coach for Mountaineers. “During the meeting, the ZC board also confirmed the coaching structure for the elite provincial sides,’’ ZC said in a statement. “This will see Shepherd Makunura, who was in charge of Mountaineers, moving to Southern Rocks as their coach. “His replacement at Mountaineers will be announced in due course. “Elsewhere, Stuart Matsikenyeri, Walter Chawaguta and Douglas Hondo will remain in charge at Eagles, Rhinos and Tuskers respectively. “The provincial sides will have the following serving as assistant coaches-cum-team managers: Erick Chauluka (Eagles), Steady Musoso (Mountaineers), Mufaro Chiturumani (Rhinos), Stanley Chioza (Southern Rocks) and Mbekezeli Mabuza (Tuskers). “The other appointments, include Steady Musoso (Mountaineers), Mufaro Chiturumani (Rhinos), Stanley Chioza (Southern Rocks) and Mbekezeli Mabuza (Tuskers). “The board also underlined the importance of tapping into the experience of players in the twilight of their careers by getting some veteran cricketers involved at technical level. “Elton Chigumbura has been appointed as player/assistant coach at Eagles, with Shingi Masakadza, Chris Mpofu, Cephas Zhuwao and Njabulo Ncube taking up similar roles at Mountaineers, Rhinos, Southern Rocks and Tuskers respectively.” The ZC board also discussed the introduction, and successful running of the inaugural National Premier League, which was won by Takashinga. Two inter-provincial tournaments for women, the Women’s T20 Cup and the Fifty50 Challenge, were also introduced.