The Herald LONDON. — Dillian Whyte believes Derek Chisora “let himself down” against Oleksandr Usyk and should have had David Haye in his corner. The Zimbabwe-born British heavyweight boxer was beaten on points by the former cruiserweight king. Despite winning early rounds, Usyk settled into a rhythm as the fight played out on Saturday night. Whyte (32) criticised Chisora’s trainers for failing to order more body shots and said manager Haye should have been in the corner. He told Sky Sports: “I thought Derek could have done much better. “He let himself down by not having any boxing experience in his corner to tell him and guide him to tell him what to do and not to do. “He just went into the ring with the mindset of knockout, knockout, knockout, and that didn’t work. And he just stuck to that game plan. “Derek was the boss in the corner. There wasn’t anyone in there. He had some good MMA guys in there, but they’re not boxing coaches. “They weren’t giving him the advice that he needed to make the changes and adjustments to beat someone like Usyk. “I would have told Derek to get his jab going and go to the body more often and start cutting the ring off. “When Derek did hit him to the body, Usyk didn’t like it. He was complaining and that he was getting hurt to the body. “The corner wasn’t strong enough. Keep working the body and stop targeting the head because Usyk was leaning back and making Derek miss. “So he should have started targeting the body. I gave Derek three or four rounds at max.” Whyte, who has twice defeated 36-year-old Chisora, added: “They caught Derek at the right time. “Why wasn’t David Haye in his corner? Someone that actually knows what they’re doing. “Not just having mates in his corner in the biggest fight of his life.” Chisora vowed to bounce back from the loss after a fortnight of rest and put to bed any talk of retirement. He told IFL TV: “Two weeks off and I’m back in the gym. Keep grinding. “I’m not retiring yet. I love boxing so much. I can still punch.” — The Sun.