The Herald Arts Reporter Local businesswoman and motivation speaker Rutendo Gwatidzo has defied all odds as she tells her story in her new book, “Born to Fight”, which was launched recently. Gwatidzo, who is the managing director for MRTG Trust Fund, an organisation that looks after orphans and the underprivileged through assisting them with educational support, said she wrote the book because she wanted to share the principles she had learnt of how to confront challenges the right way and overcome. “I wrote the book last year in December and wanted to launch it sometime in March this year, but Covid-19 happened,” she said. “I had to wait for the right time as we launched virtually and the event had less people guided by the global pandemic restrictions. The book is about empowering the girl child in many different ways. “Personally, I started at a remote village. At some point I never thought I could make it to town, but today I’m rubbing shoulders with great men and women. I never thought I would drive big cars that were seemingly cars for men, or even run a business. “I decided to tell how one can fight his or her fears and make it to the top through my book. It is my survival story.” Gwatidzo said the book had been well received as it was impacting and transforming lives of many people. “I am happy how high school students are accepting and reading the book, especially the girl child,” she said. “I have already received orders from different schools to put the book in their libraries. “Some church leaders are even using the books in their mentorship sessions. It’s so amazing how the book is speaking to different groups at different levels. I believe this is because we all face challenges in life and we all have to face them with winning strategies in order to live a victorious life. “Yes, the struggle is real, but the victory is certain if you fight with winning strategies.” Gwatidzo said her mother was her role model as she fought battles that today she still can’t understand how she managed to conquer. “While in the jungle, she held me by the hand, showed me the tricks to survive. She also showed me ways to come out of the jungle, and taught me how to live a victorious life,” she said. “What more can I ask for to consider someone a role model? “She gave me life. I honour women with all I have. I salute my mother and sister Rufaro as they have defied all odds.” Gwatidzo said the book was also available on Amazon for those outside the country or who might want to buy the book online. It is her vision to share secrets and tips of becoming a successful women through the book.