The Herald FC Platinum will return to Mozambique in their latest CAF Champions League campaign after they were drawn against Costa do Sol in their preliminary round battle. The three-time Zimbabwe champions will be away in Maputo, for the first leg of the contest, before taking on the Mozambicans in the second leg at home. In the last Champions League, the Zvishavane side met another Mozambican side, UD Songo of Beira, in the first round. Never Tigere, who now plays for Tanzanian side Azam, scored the only goal for FC Platinum in a 1-0 win at Barbourfields before the Zimbabweans rallied from two goals down to win 4-2 in Beira for a 5-2 aggregate win. Should FC Platinum win their preliminary round battle, they will take on either Plateau United of Nigeria or Simba SC of Tanzania in the first round. Ironically, Simba SC would have met FC Platinum, in the first round last year, had they not lost to UD Songo in the previous round. FC Platinum coach, Hendrik Pieter de Jongh has been in the headlines, of late, after what appeared to be an attack on the Sports Commission. However, the Dutchman, said his words were apparently twisted. “I am a professional coach, dedicated to my job. I am honest and loyal with total respect to PSL, SRC and the football community,’’ he responded on Twitter. “Do not use or change my words for your will.’’ FC Platinum have made it clear they are targeting making a bigger impression in the Champions League this season. But, it will be a tough adventure with Egyptian clubs Al Ahly and Zamalek, who contest the 2020 CAF Champions League final on November 27, among 11 former title-holders who have qualified for this edition. Of the clubs who reached the Champions League quarter-finals this season, only Tunisian outfit Etoile Sahel failed to make it again with Esperance and CS Sfaxien representing the nation. Apart from the 11 former winners, six clubs have won other CAF competitions will be contenders, including Gor Mahia of Kenya and Kaizer Chiefs of South Africa. There are four former African champions among the Confederation Cup entrants — Entente Setif and JS Kabylie of Algeria, Orlando Pirates of South Africa and Etoile Sahel. — Sports Reporter/AFP.