The Herald THERE is something utterly disgusting by the West’s condescending attitude towards African states, specifically those countries that dare assert their independence and sovereignty. That disgusting trait was yet again on display in the British House of Lords last week as Britain, the former coloniser, sought to lecture Zimbabwe on democracy, human rights and the fight against corruption. It boggles the mind how Britain, with its chequered history that is characterised by looting and genocidal tendencies against black people, assumes moral ground to lecture Zimbabwe on tenets they were forced to give Zimbabweans in 1980 after a brutal war of independence. During their debate, in the House of Lords, the unelected British Lords sickly tried to link Henrietta Rushwaya with President Mnangagwa, in a vain attempt to besmirch the President and project a picture of inertia in the anti-corruption crusade. In their ignorance, the Lords, chose to ignore the fact that in the past two years President Mnangagwa has relieved two Cabinet ministers of their jobs after they had been implicated in corruption. The President has declared zero tolerance to corruption, warning those in Government and even in the ruling party that the rule of law will respect no office or status. And walking the talk, under President Mnangagwa’s watch, former ministers such as Samuel Udenge and Jason Machaya have been locked up on corruption charges. The list of prominent persons who have been locked up cannot be exhausted on this platform, suffice to say the President has made it his mission to clean Zimbabwe of corruption, and he is doing just that. Yet, oblivious to these facts, the British, who seemingly live in a time warp, and have fantasies of a lost empire, have the guile to condemn Zimbabwe on baseless claims that laughably premised on fake social media accounts. No, foreign policy can and must never be rooted on heresy and concoctions on social media platforms. Of course it is trite that Zimbabwe is a sovereign country, indeed, it is common knowledge that in 1980 the country attained its independence, and that independence and sovereignty should be maintained and sustained. The sustenance and furtherance of our rights in the international comity has, however, riled the erstwhile colonisers who were determined to continue to subjugate the nation, through neo-liberal and neo-colonial policies by way of sponsoring opposition parties. However, the decision by the Zanu PF Government to clear its own path and determine the country’s destiny free of international interference continue to rile Britain as demonstrated by the obsession that the former pillaging power has on Zimbabwe. As such commendable efforts that have been undertaken by the Second Republic to engage all nations are being treated disdainfully as a sign of weakness. As was said by Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Dr Sibusiso Moyo, “We chart our own course based on our own national interests. We cooperate with our regional partners and indeed with all partners on the basis of mutual respect and understanding”. Indeed, despite the brazen attempts by Western nations to prescribe and dictate to Zimbabwe, the Second Republic is determined to forge a productive, mutually-beneficial partnership with all nations as is aptly demonstrated in various deals of cooperation that the New Dispensation has entered into. During debate in the National House of Assembly, one legislature poignantly said, “We have no problem with criticism, but let it be constructive NOT destructive in nature.  Let it be evidence-based and factual, NOT based on social-media hype and fabrication. And let it be conveyed on the basis of mutual respect and courtesy, NOT in the form of prescription and dictation, from a master to an underling”. When Zimbabwe carries reforms, such as the repealing of laws such as the Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act, when the Government moves to compensate white former farmers for developments on the land, and indeed when the Second Republic stretches its hand for re-engagement on an equal footing, the British with their colonial hangover fantasies bury their heads in the sand, and instead try to find fault where there is none. Britain should hang its head in shame for entertaining such thoughts. Such tendencies are in total disregard to multilateralism as Western nations seek to interfere in Zimbabwe domestic affairs and cause the removal of the democratically elected Government. The fact that the Second Republic is seeking re-engagement is not a sign of weakness, but rather strength, the fact that freedoms have flourished under the Second Republic is a sign of progress, and the fact that Ministers have been arrested, is a sign that there are no sacred cows when it comes to uprooting this vice. This fragrant interference by the British in Zimbabwe’s internal affairs, including attempts to undermine due processes through premature pronouncements on a matter before our courts should be condemned by any right thinking Zimbabwean, no, we will chart our own path, we will walk our own road and we will determine our own  destiny.