The Herald Thupeyo Muleya in BEITBRIDGE This year’s race, which seeks to raise awareness on protecting the environment, was held on a new route, along the Beitbridge/Bulawayo road, shifting from its traditional route, the Beitbridge/Harare road. Sanctuary insurance were the main sponsors, with Beitbridge Municipality co-ordinating. Littering has become a perennial headache for Beitbridge Municipality with the town producing a total of 700 tonnes of solid waste per month. Sithole beat scores of athletes, among them Jonathan Chinyoka, who came up in third position in the senior male category. He crossed the finishing line in 1 hour 17 minutes, while Ngonidzashe Ncube and Chinyoka arrived five and seven minutes later. Chinyoka is a past winner of the race. The 25km race started at Mtetengwe Business Centre and ended at Border Service Station in the CBD. All winners received trophies, medals and cash prices of R3 500, R2 300, and R1 300. Allen Mangwere, Misheck Matanhire and Saide Manjawila were crowned the winners in the male masters category when they crossed the finishing line after two hours. Kelvin Pangiso continued to dominate in the veterans’ race when he arrived home in 1 hour 27 minutes. Lucky Siamuche and Cephas Pasipamire finished second and third respectively . Lanky athlete, Tryfina Picardo of ZRP Athletics Club, was victorious in (1 hour 27 minutes) in the female senior race, after shrugging off stiff competition from Olivia Chitate (ZRP Club) and Rudo Mhonderwa (Powerhouse Club). This year, there were more women in the veterans’ category which was won by Faith Sanyika (ZRP Club) who beat the experienced Tabitha Tsatsa (Powerhouse) and Magret Mahohoma (Independent). There were only two female masters, Fatima Hassin (Fitness first) and Mercy Westgate (Independent) A 5km power walk race, which started at Masvingo turn-off and ended at Border Service station, added colour to the day. Amos Mariva, Hardlife Moyo, Luwin Chikozho took the first three positions in the male senior category. Beitbridge East legislator, Albert Nguluvhe, who was the guest speaker at the race, said it was important for more people in Beitbridge to participate in the race. Town Clerk, Loud Ramakgapola, said they were working on making the race a curtain-raiser to the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon.