The Herald Herald Reporter
Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Senator Monica Mutsvangwa has implored the country’s marketing professionals and business leaders to support initiatives enunciated in the National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1), which is aimed at transforming the country into a middle income society by 2030. Speaking at a Superbrands Awards ceremony organised by the Marketers Association of Zimbabwe (MAZ) in Harare last night, Minister Mutsvangwa said the business community could assist in the digital economy, human capital development, image building and international engagement and  re-engagement. The presence of local brands on the shelves of international markets was an indication of the country’s strength and capabilities in the global village. Minister Mutsvangwa, who is the MAZ patron, said there was need to focus on making local brands competitive in huge retail outlets and e-commerce platforms. “The Second Republic is about hard work and is result oriented,” she said. “With this in mind, every Zimbabwean is expected to play their part to complement the efforts and aspirations of our President, His Excellency, Cde E.D Mnangagwa and his government to make the country an upper middle income economy by 2030.” The Covid-19 pandemic had caused a lot of suffering to people and businesses, but local brands had remained steadfast and stood the test of time. “We would like to applaud every business represented here and their respective custodians to remain steadfast and continue to seek more and more excellence for the benefit of the consuming public and ultimately, growth of our nation at large,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She congratulated MAZ for electing its eighth president, Professor Zororo Muranda, saying this was a sign of good corporate governance and professionalism. Prof Muranda replaces Mr Denny Marandure. “Matters of corporate governance are key to strengthening the reputation and credibility of institutions,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. “You are leading in setting the levels of professionalism in Zimbabwe.”