The Herald Prosper Dembedza
Court Correspondent
HIGH Court Judge Justice Webster Chinamhora has removed from remand Harare lawyer Everson Round Samukange, who was facing charges of threatening to kill a senior partner at Venturas and Samukange law firm, Mr Christos Alexander Venturas. Samukange was alleged to have sent a live bullet wrapped in a letter containing death threats to Mr Venturas that was meant to stop him from pursuing the recovery of money he allegedly stole from the law firm. Samukange is jointly charged with Theresa Machawira, who was a secretary at the same law firm before being dismissed. Justice Chinamhora also ordered stay of proceedings of the matter at the lower court pending a review of a ruling made by magistrate Mr Francis Mapfumo who dismissed the duo’s application for quashing of the charges. Samukange’s lawyer advocate Fadzai Mahere last week submitted a High Court order before Harare magistrate Mrs Letwin Rwodzi which showed stayed proceedings and also removed the duo on remand. In her application for the quashing of charges advocate Mahere pleaded with the court to quash all the charges against her client saying there was improper splitting of the charges. The State, led by Mr Michael Reza, alleges that Everson and Machawira’s offences arose when they were both employed at Venturas and Samukange. It is alleged that during an investigation of fraud at the law firm Samukange was given a deadline of September 24, 2018 to make a full disclosure of the amount he allegedly defrauded the firm before they could enter negotiations with him as to how he could repay the money and thus avoid criminal prosecution. On that date, Everson was told by Mr Jonathan Samukange’s assistant, Mr Max Moosa, that the firm was insisting on him making a full written disclosure before they could enter into any negotiations, but he refused. On the same day, an envelope was delivered to the Belgravia home of partner Mr Venturas, containing a letter threatening him and his young children with death along with a live round from an AK47 assault rifle. The following day, another letter was delivered to Mr Venturas’ home threatening him and his two sons with death if he did not stop persecuting black people in his office and that he should go back to Greece, the court heard. The court also heard that in January 2018, Machawira was dismissed from Venturas and Samukange and a new secretary, Ms Amanda Tahwa, was hired to replace her. Reports were that on August 29 last year, Samukange wanted to resign from his job and his departure came without warning or proper notice. However, he was permitted to take three files from the law firm which he had been working on to assist him in setting up his own practice. Ms Tahwa was tasked with keeping the office locked and checking all the files and later found out that there were a lot of unpaid invoices and missing files. Samukange was asked about the missing files and he indicated that some were in the archives, which turned out to be false. The matter was reported to the Law Society of Zimbabwe before an audit of the files was conducted in his office. It was at this stage that Samukange was said to have offered to pay back money that he allegedly admitted to have fraudulently acquired from the law firm. At that stage US$75 000 was allegedly found to be missing, but after the audit it was discovered that the figure was higher. This led the law firm to set the September 24 deadline for full disclosure, but Samukange allegedly only agreed to pay US$40 000. As a result of the audit, it is alleged that between May 2013 and December 2017, a company called Barep Enterprises had deposited US$28 495 into Machawira’s CBZ account and that she transferred a total of US$8 709 into Everson’s personal Standard Chartered bank account, hence the charges against her. From January 2013 to August 31, 2018, it is alleged Everson received US$162 468 into his personal account from the law firm’s clients and US$123 550 in cash from clients, which he deposited into his personal account, which were added to the charges against him.