The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FOR Benjamin Lock, remaining in touch with the grassroots is one of the important aspects to inspire young players that may have the dream of turning professional. The Davis Cup team member is in Lobamba, Eswatini, playing in the 2020 Acers Tennis Open, which runs until tomorrow. He was invited as a guest player.  Besides taking part in the competition, the Zimbabwean is also set to conduct a kids’ camp where he will be interacting with aspiring players. Speaking from Eswatini, the Zimbabwean top player highlighted the importance of grassroots tennis. “I think it’s so important to be involved with the grassroots of tennis. I think often times, especially players from this part of the world, they often forget about the struggles that local players have. “And, I think it’s so important for young players, especially kids, to interact with professionals, to see them up close and to get advice because you never know who you can inspire and what opportunities that could bring them. “So, for me, I think it’s extremely important to give back to the communities and to try and influence as many people as you can in the positive and right way. “I think it’s very important and it’s something I really enjoy doing,” said Lock. Coming from a strong tennis background, with his father Martin a former Davis Cup player and his mother Lindsay also a former player, it has also proved vital in shaping his career. “I think having parents, and grandparents who played the game really helps with directing you to play tennis and play professionally, so that definitely helped. “And, they understand exactly how the tour is and are always there to support me through the good times and the not-so-good times. ‘‘I know that they are always thinking what can they do to help me to improve my game and always trying to help me develop. “So, it’s great because tennis parents understand what it’s like and I think that’s a huge advantage. ‘‘That being said, on tour, you also have to figure it out for yourself, everyone is their own person. And, I think it’s all about adjusting and realising what you need to do to be the most successful that you can and its different for everyone and there is no set formula or set timelines. ‘‘I think that the main thing is to block out all the noise and destructions to focus on what you need to do to get where you want to go. ‘‘That’s how I see it,” Lock said. He has been to a number of tournaments since the sport resumed international events. However, as he takes part in the event in Eswatini, Lock says his goal is to win the tournament. “I have played a few tournaments since the start of tennis in August. “Obviously, it’s a completely different environment and I think with the lack of tournaments the level has really increased in the tournaments, so it’s been quite difficult. “But, I have had some matches where I felt I have played some pretty good tennis and matches where I have felt I have not played so well. ‘‘So, it’s just about merging those matches and your expectations and trying to continue to get better, I think it’s the main thing. “And, if I can continue to improve my game and be ready for 2021, I think that will be the main goal,” said Lock.