The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter WHILE many athletes would want to grace the world’s top competitions, such as World Championships and the Olympics, not all of them get the chance to realise that dream. But, for Cuthbert Nyasango, one of the seasoned long-distance runners in the country, it’s something that came true. Nyasango has represented the country at the World Championships and Olympics. He has also done well at various international races. He charmed the country at the 2012 Olympic Games in London when he came seventh in marathon, in 2 hours 12 minutes 8 seconds. It was the best ever performance by a Zimbabwean at the showpiece. “I can’’t explain the feeling but what I know is, tears of joy came out,” recalls Nyasango. Other outstanding moments of his career include the 2009 Prague marathon, and the 2007 World Half marathon in Italy, where he set a national record of 1hour 26 seconds. Nyasango returned for the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro but finished in 58th place in a time of 2 hours 18 minutes 58 seconds. “After London 2012, I ran a good time in 2014 and got injured,’’ he said. “When I recovered, I started again to feel the desire to run good times. My training went on well and I was confident. But, I don’t know what happened, my body did not respond the way I thought it would. I was disappointed because that was the worst position in my career at international event level.’’ He was forced to stop training after sustaining an injury in 2017. “Injuries affected me in many ways. Prayer, and reading the Bible, helped me during the most difficult times of my career. My family also helped me a lot. “I think the best of me is now behind us. I don’t think I will be able to perform at that level again. I will continue to compete in races that focus on winning not time,” Nyasango said. The seasoned runner, whose first international competition was the World Junior Championships in 2000, in Chile, attributes his success to the support he got from the early stage of his career. “I was identified by coach, Benson Chauke, who remains my coach, my mentor, my brother, my father, up to now,’’ he said. “I would like to mention the former headmaster of Kuwadzana High School, Mr TB Muzarurwi, for supporting athletics. Had it not been for his support, I would not have been what I am today.’’ Nyasango is employed at the Bindura University of Science Education under the National Sports Academy. “I am a qualified IAAF athletics coach. Currently, I am employed at Bindura University of Science Education, under the National Sports Academy. This is the platform I will use to make sure that the experience I earned, during my 20-year career, will benefit my fellow brothers and sisters. It is very difficult to establish yourself. Athletes must get help from coaches, senior athletes, and administrators. I was helped by Tendai Chimusasa and Abel Chimukoko. “There are no shortcuts in sport,” said Nyasango.