The Herald Michael Magoronga Midlands Correspondent THE Zimbabwe Electricity Distribution Company (ZETDC), has threatened to switch off defunct steel giant, Zisco, over a $6,2 million debt accrued over a period of three months. In a letter to Zisco that was signed by ZETDC southern region general manager, Engineer King Fazo Dube, seen by the news crew, the power utility turned down a payment plan tabled by the steel company together with Redcliff Municipality and ZimChem and insists on switching off supplies. The move could spell doom not only to Zisco, but also for Redcliff residents who rely on the company for pumping water. Zisco receives water from Kwekwe, which is then distributed to other companies and residents in Redcliff using the company’s water pump. Companies such as Steelmakers, Zimchem and ZimCoke may also be forced to halt operations due to non-availability of water. “We cannot accept your payment plan request to pay $290 000, which does not even cover your average monthly bill of $1 300 000. As we highlighted in the meeting, we had with you, we are left with no other option but to disconnect supplies if we do not receive full payment of your account,” wrote Eng Dube. In the same letter, ZETDC urged Zisco to engage Redcliff Municipality and ZimChem to find a way forward. Acting Zisco Board chair, Dr Gift Mugano, said he did not have finer details of the matter. “What I can say for now is that as far as I am concerned, we were paying our bills. You should also bear in mind that we are not operating and at times we might fail to fulfil our obligations,” he said. “But I am also aware that negotiations are ongoing between us and Redcliff and ZimChem that we have separate meters that we are billed separately. We are currently seized with the matter and I think very soon it will be solved,” said Dr Mugano. Redcliff town clerk, Mr Gilson Chakauya said the move would render the entire Redcliff town dry. He requested residents to contribute towards the paying of the bill.