The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter SANITY has returned to CAPS United after players and officials agreed to bury the hatchet and move forward. The Green Machine were rocked by as ugly stand-off between the players and club vice-president, Nhamo Tutisani, this week. The players besieged Tutisani’s business premises to demand their outstanding salaries and, after the two parties could not strike an agreement, some harsh words were exchanged. In the end, police had to be called in to restore order. However, yesterday, the club were busy processing the payments for the players after the parties found each other and agreed on the way forward. This includes paying the players their dues and clearing the outstanding amounts, which include the March balance, as well as full payment for April. A club official, who requested anonymity, said a meeting between the players and the club officials was held where they agreed to bury the hatchet. “There was dialogue with the players where everyone agreed on the way forward to resolve the matter,’’ the official said. “The players also apologised that some of their actions were driven by emotions, since they have families to look after, and did not have money for family upkeep. “The club also assured them that they want to clear outstanding payments and they we are in the process of transferring the money. “The club is making serious effort and we managed to find a way to resolve our differences internally.’’ Ironically, the club was plunged into turmoil barely a week after Tutisani had commended the players for understanding the team’s plight. “I would like to applaud the players’ behaviour, which has been commendable,’’ Tutisani said last week. “They are giving us space and time to sort out the monetary issues despite the harsh economic conditions.” But the administrator might have spoken too soon as, on Tuesday, the players pitched up at his offices. The stand-off centred on the $480 000 which CAPS United received from NetOne, upon the termination of their sponsorship deal, which the players wanted to be used to settle their salaries. The money was enough to cover about two months of the salaries. The players say they received advice from their colleagues at Highlanders, a club which received a similar payment from NetOne, that they had been paid some of their dues. And the situation quickly degenerated into chaos with Tutisani even threatening to expel winger Phineas Bhamusi and striker John Zhuwawu from the club.