The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
FOLLOWING the decision by Rugby Africa to cancel the 2020 season, Zimbabwe Rugby Union president, Aaron Jani, says their focus now was to build capacity for 2021. In a statement released early in the week, the continental board said the decision to cancel all competitions follows a joint agreement with the federations. Competitions cancelled include the Rugby Africa Cup, which was due to get underway on May 30. Some of the considerations that led to the decision were the current ban on travel, public gatherings and sporting events across Africa. They also pointed out that not all African nations will lift restrictions at the same time, or in the same way, and it would compromise some countries’ participation. “The information was communicated to the board and we had a discussion and what we have decided to do, instead of wasting the time that we now have available, is to try and utilise it to catch up on the areas where we feel that we have been behind,’’ said Jani. “We are doing an application to the Ministry, so that we will be allowed to conduct training and education in all the provinces. “We are going to focus on building capacity for 2021. “This will involve increasing the number of referees, the number of coaches, the number of medics available in the 2021 season, so that we can cope better with numbers. “The other area is that we are hoping as the lockdown restrictions ease, we will, perhaps, get an opportunity, towards the end of the year, to focus on the domestic league. “That will allow us to, perhaps, complete the Under-21 league we had started and also to do some provincial tournaments to round off the year, to try and salvage something for the season.’’ Jani said they have been allocated €5 000 from the solidarity fund that was approved by Rugby Africa to help struggling federations. “We have been allocated funds which will go towards trying to alleviate the medical situation, and the food situation, prevailing under the lockdown for the rugby players. “What I would like to say to the rugby community is that this, too, will come to pass. “So, what we need to do is to focus on preparing capacity for 2021. “The players need to continue training, doing training as we have directed our strength and conditioning teams to give out training schedules. “They need to stick to those schedules so that we are ready to begin the season when it starts at the beginning of 2021,” said Jani.