The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Reigning Miss Zimbabwe Belinda Potts has joined well-wishers who are assisting the less-privileged who are facing harsh times due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. Potts, who was crowned in 2018, is collecting blankets and food which she intends to distribute to children’s homes and to street kids as part of her charity work. In an interview with The Herald, the 23-year-old model said she has not stopped doing charity work. “It is almost two years now since I was crowned Miss World Zimbabwe. I am still enjoying my benefits and my crown. The issue of coronavirus has affected many lives and we should think more of the less fortunate and how are they surviving. I am collecting blankets with the help from my friends and so far we have distributed to some of the street kids. I am planning to prepare and give them tea and bread every morning and I urge well-wishers and stakeholders who want to come on board to join us so that we make a difference,” she said. Potts said she recently opened a trust, although it has not been able to do much because of the lockdown. “In January I opened a Fashion Advocacy Trust and we are sourcing funds to assist homeless people. We have been not fully operational because of the lockdown. So far I have made donations in Masvingo, Bulawayo and Mutare.” She said was also assisting in online grooming lessons and coaching clinic for aspiring models. “I am not sure if the pageant will take place this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. South Africa has started its online auditions and I can’t wait of ours too. I have been engaging with aspiring models, coaching and teaching them about modelling skills. I am actually doing it for free through social media,” said Potts. Asked about the allegations that she has breached the pageant laws as she was seen partying, Potts denied the rumours, but said she had a birthday over the weekend. “I was not even drinking. My sister organised a surprise birthday party with my friends and family. I am just a normal girl and that is what happened. “I am still Miss World Zimbabwe and I know the consequences of misbehaving when you are a crown holder. I am a role model to young girls so I wouldn’t cross the line. I am principled and know my limits,” she said. Potts has held the crown for almost two years since the pageant could not take place last year due to organisational setbacks. It is still not clear if the pageant will be held this year as no information is yet to be released about the event. If it is not held, Potts will continue holding for the title until the organisers make a new arrangement about the pageant and her status.