The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle Reporter Difficult times breed solutions to problems and that is when you realise that people are capable of handling challenges. When the country discovered its first coronavirus victim, the Government announced a lockdown that restricted movement, except for those in essential services. Things changed abruptly and a new normal came into play. The new normal meant it was no longer business as usual. There was a paradigm shift on everything from personal life, family, business and national ethos. Things changed fast, including the supply and delivery of goods and services changed in all forms. Many people not in essential services found themselves unable to reach conventional retail outlets, albeit food being an essential need. Carl Magwaza of Carl Meats Company started door-to-door meat deliveries to people at home. It is midday, the weather is fine, typical of a normal June and we seek to talk to the man himself. Clad in an FBI black suit, a black shirt, a maroon tie with a Carling Meat Company logo, is a 31-year-old entrepreneur, Magwaza, one of the most sought after door–to–door meat deliverers. In his suit, he could be mistaken for a top bank executive or someone who is about to strike a billion-dollar deal with an investor. He is the chief executive of Carling Meat Company. It has become a norm to use virtual platforms to deliver goods and services in these times of Covid-19 and Magwaza has not been left out. He has opened accounts on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and SnapChat where his customers can log on and place their orders. The accounts specify the quality and choice of meat cuts available on a particular day. One can place an order and pay online or on delivery at their homes. “A Carling Meats application will be ready by the end of this month,” he said. “It will make it easier to interact with our customers.” His work and innovation has earned Magwaza the nickname “MeatBae”. Magwaza has a prestigious office in the Avenues area in Harare, which is also the hub for his first butchery. Asked to describe himself, Magwaza, smiled and said, “hungry”. “I am ever hungry for greatness and I decided to venture into this business because of two things, philanthropic work and the gap in butchery business,” he said. “I am an accountant by profession, but I have decided to dedicate my time to the business.” For 15 minutes, Magwaza showed and explained the different meat cuts and grades with the expertise of a salesman. “For now we have all types of meat, especially the popular ones like chicken, beef, pork and fish. Mutton is delivered according to special orders. I have butcheries in Dzivaresekwa, Msasa, Hatfield, Harare CBD, Seke and Marondera,” he said “My team has about 10 people including drivers and scooter bikers who do door–to-door deliveries. Business is booming especially during this lockdown. I can safely say that this is the time I have made money. My clients range from top corporates to celebrities, diplomats and the general populace. I now have work, plan deliveries and I cherish my clients. “I have a farm in Seke and this is where I do livestock rearing. Sometimes I outsource cattle from others. I rear my own cattle, pigs and chicken. I get fish from Kariba. “We have a lot of unscrupulous and unlicensed butcheries and even some people selling meat back-door, but people need to know the difference between quality, super and commercial meat. The major difference on meat business is ‘quality.’” Magwaza said his role model is his mother Viola Manjonjo. “My dad was my role model, but he passed away while I was in Grade Seven. I am much inspired by my mother who raised me to be the man I am. I owe everything to her. “I want to engage big companies like Delta and work with them because meat and drinks are inseparable. I am also waiting to officially open my butchery in Dzivaresekwa. It is operational, but I would like to invite the Minister of Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development, Sithembiso Nyoni to officially open it,” he said. Magwaza married Valentine Maburutse in 2018 and the couple has a daughter, Lerato. “I was born into a family of four and I am the third born. My wife has been my pillar of strength,” he said.