The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea won the race to sign Timo Werner after Frank Lampard’s side they offered him a £200 000-per-week deal. They triggered the £50million release clause that was due to expire on June 15. Werner had been widely tipped to join Liverpool this summer, with Jurgen Klopp a known admirer of the Germany forward, who has scored 31 goals in all competitions for Leipzig this season. But with the Reds feeling the pinch amid the coronavirus pandemic, they were reluctant to stump up the cash to prise the Germany international away from his homeland. Manchester United were also linked with Werner, but Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side were trumped by Chelsea as boss Lampard continues to revamp his squad following the signing of winger Hakim Ziyech from Ajax. Lampard now has an array of exciting attacking options at his disposal as he looks ahead to a silverware challenge on four fronts next season. Werner can play either as a centre-forward or out wide, and looks most likely to play on the left wing for Chelsea with young England striker Tammy Abraham expected to lead the line. Ziyech would play on the right wing with Mason Mount in a No. 10 role — while Lampard will also be able to call on widemen Christian Pulisic and Callum Hudson-Odoi and striker Olivier Giroud. Following the signing of Werner, Lampard is expected to target Leicester City left-back Ben Chilwell, while West ham midfielder Declan Rice and Sassuolo forward Jeremie Boga also believed to be on Chelsea’s radar. Meanwhile, Jamie Redknapp reckons Werner joining the club is a sign that Chelsea are set for a bright future under Lampard’s leadership. “It’s a great signing,” former Liverpool, Tottenham and England midfielder Redknapp told Football London. “They have got Ziyech as well and he looks like a really good signing as well. Frank is building a really good, young side. “He will probably look at that Chelsea front line, with Willian and Pedro out of contract this summer, and think that he can be a regular in that team. “Tammy [Abraham] has done well up front, but he [Werner] can play in any of the three front positions. “I think it just shows that they are doing good things at Chelsea. Frank has done a great job, especially if they get top four. “If the deal is done without knowing that Chelsea are going to be in the Champions League, then it shows you that he was very impressed with what Frank and Chelsea are doing right now.” — The Mirror.