The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FOR most national sports associations, the negative financial impact from the Covid-19 pandemic has now become an issue of major concern. Zimbabwe Karate Union president, Joe Rugwete, said they have been reeling from financial challenges. “Covid-19 has had a huge negative financial impact on ZKU as it has had on the general global sporting arena,’’ he said. “Over 90 percent of income generated by clubs (styles) come from training fees. The closure of dojos has made it difficult for members to pay for a service they are not getting. “While most members would want to continue paying their training fees, most have been affected by the lockdown, some are entrepreneurs not in essential services. “Some are employed by organisations that have also been affected in one way or another. “The exact financial losses are difficult to arrive at, but can be estimated to be around $350 000.” The ZKU president, however, said they were being considered for the disadvantaged federations programme by the World Karate Federation. They are also hopeful, if they engage the Sports Commission, they may be able to assist them navigate the stormy waters. “There have been no indications of any grants from the continental or international bodies specific to Covid-19,’’ he said. “But, we are being considered by the WKF for the disadvantaged federations programme for the next Senior World Championships. “We are also negotiating to bring WKF expert referees and coaches through the regional and continental bodies “We have not yet approached the SRC for any financial assistance during the lockdown. “We are confident that if we present a solid case for consideration, we will get a positive response.” For swimming, it’s off season and, with their sport mainly funded by parents, their major concern is the decline in membership due to financial challenges. Zimbabwe Aquatic Union president, Mary Kloppers, said with some regional and continental competitions cancelled, they were likely to divert the grant they get from the international federation to other programmes. “It is our off season so, we have not had an immediate impact on our finances,’’ she said. “Swimming in Zimbabwe is almost entirely parent-funded, we will only be able to assess the true impact once the season starts in September. “However, we are expecting a decline in membership due to the financial impact Covid-19 has had in general. “We do still have one athlete on Olympic scholarship and that has not changed. “We get a small grant from FINA and we will have to divert some of that to other projects as some regional and continental competitions will not be taking place. “FINA have indicated that the clinics we were supposed to host, funded by FINA, will go ahead in virtual format so that remains unaffected.’’ National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president, Tendai Tagara, said after missing out on the US$500 000 fund created by World Athletics to support athletes during the pandemic, they were in a quagmire. “We are a non-profit making organisation. Entries, clearance, sanctioning, marketing and events support, from sponsors, all make us tick,’’ he said. “There is no grant set for Covid-19 except the US$500 000, which our athletes cannot qualify for.’’