The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — By his own admission, Evans Rusike has endured a disappointing spell since swapping the blue strip of Maritzburg United for the blue of SuperSport United in South Africa. Injury and loss of form have combined to curtail his progress. The Zimbabwean international has, nonetheless, assured fans from the Tshwane-based team he will soon overcome his blues and start banging in the goals to help them win silverware. Rusike has not hit the desired highs after joining the former league champions in 2018. And, before the coronavirus pandemic wrecked the current campaign, he had scored two goals in 19 appearances across all competitions. “Honestly, this season, I’m not happy with my performance, especially not scoring many goals,” the striker conceded. The man from Chitungwiza, just outside Harare who turns 30 on June 13, was speaking to CAJ News Africa. “Remember, when I joined SuperSport United from Maritzburg, I became the top goal scorer with only six goals but that was far below my capabilities and abilities,” Rusike, the scorer of only six goals in 46 SuperSport appearances, added. Former SuperSport coach Eric Tinkler, coincidentally now the coach at The Team of Choice, brought the player to Gauteng after the forward scored 20 goals in 74 appearances for the KwaZulu-Natal side. “I’m going to try my best to bang as many goals as possible next season. Our fans deserve to rejoice. It is my sincere hope I heal 100 percent so that goals start coming my way.” The hard-running forward also still hopes to play in Europe. ‘’Every player who does well in a league like the ABSA Premiership would always wish to play in top European leagues. I am no exception,” he said. “It is my dream to play in Europe before retirement. Rubbing shoulders with big guns is what I like most, but I have to work extra hard to ensure I draw the attention of European teams.” Contracted until next year, with an option of two years, Rusike is undergoing rehabilitation. Coach Kaitano Tembo’s SuperSport were on third position when the Covid-19 pandemic put the Premiership campaign on hold. Meanwhile, Kudakwashe Mahachi is delighted to be at SuperSport United and winning trophies after a difficult spell with Orlando Pirates. Speaking to the Sowetan, he said: “Most of the time, I came on as a substitute and I started to score goals at Pirates. “I was given a fair chance there but I couldn’t adjust on time and there are a lot of quality players I was competing with. “I was registered as a foreigner and it was difficult for them to keep me because they wanted to sign other foreigners. “They saw that I was not playing much, so they decided to release me and coach Kaitano [Tembo] called me to come here [at SuperSport United]. “I’m happy at SuperSport now and I have adapted well here. I got here and in my first season with them, I won a trophy [MTN8]. I failed to do that in other teams I played for.” — CAJ News-Sport24.