The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Handball Federation board are set to meet next week to map the way forward after the Confederation of African Handball rescheduled some competitions for later in the year. Some of the rescheduled events include the Africa Club Championships, which have been set for November 13 to 22. The Men’s Juniors Africa Nations Championship and Men’s Youth Africa Nations Championship have been rescheduled for December 6 to 12 and December 13 to 19. CAHB are hoping by that time, the situation related to the Covid-19 pandemic, would have normalised. Zimbabwe were supposed to host the International Handball Federation Trophy Challenge Zone Six in April but, just like many other sporting events, it was put on hold due to Covid-19. The regional event also serves as a qualifying competition to the continental championships. However, most countries in the region are yet to fully resume their sporting activities due to the pandemic. In Zimbabwe handball is classified as a high risk sport. ZHF secretary-general, Edson Chirowodza, said they were going to have a meeting next week to discuss the developments but will be guided by local heath guidelines. “We are still guided by local health advice on Covid-19. However, our players are training tirelessly in their homes. ‘’So far, we are classified as a high-risk sport hence it makes everything difficult for us to plan, not knowing when we are going to have the green light to start activities outdoor. “We are affected in that we play Zone Six Games before December in order to qualify for the Youth and Junior African Championships,” said Chirowodza. He, however, said those are some of the issues the continental board were likely to consider, as most countries are still under lockdown. “Zimbabwe still has high chances of hosting the event since CAHB has set dates for the African Youth and Junior Championships for December which means Zone Six games can be held any day before the African games. “Now that sport is gradually coming into action we are hopeful that handball will come into action,” said Chirowodza. Besides deliberating on the revised CAHB calendar, the handball leadership are also expecting to look at the provincial structures. “Our main thrust also is to make sure that each board is fully functional with all districts structured. ‘’So, in summary, we are going to deliberate on proper governance in our provinces,” said Chirowodza.