The Herald Sports Reporter THEY came, they fought and, somehow, they didn’t make it past the final hurdle even when they appeared to have reached the gates to heaven. Reinhard Fabisch and his Dream Team didn’t qualify for the AFCON and World Cup finals, something which divides opinion among fans but, in terms of uniting the nation, they played more than their part. We have dedicated this month to the Dream Team Month, to provide a platform, for our readers to debate, as much as they can, issues related to Fabisch and his men. And, yesterday, was another day when football fans, from within and outside the country, took to Twitter to say what they think about that team, that adventure, and here are some of their views: @owakoNkomo “Immortals for me! The team were even hovering around the top 50 (FIFA) and top 10 (CAF) rankings during that period (stretching to the mid-90s).’’ Nevison Gakaka “We can either agree that the ‘90s players were good but the coach messed (it up) when it mattered (the) most or the coach was good but our players did not have enough spine in tension filled-matches. How did they fail to beat a weakened Zambia at home?’’ @rivaldomk1 “The Dream Team brought a winning mentality to our national team culture. We now expect to win, irrespective of whom we are playing! And, for good reason, teams, especially traditional giants, now take Zimbabwe seriously. It’s no longer a guaranteed win as in the old days! Fabisch’s Dream Team, the streets will never forget, the National Sports Stadium will be a fortress, a graveyard for-so called African football giants. We have our own heroes. The club they play for is insignificant, never gave up, even in the hell of Cairo, when we played, the streets were empty. Cameroon who? Egypt who? South Africa who? Doctor who? Bring on the Shoeshine Piano! Ajira to Adamski to Nsukuzonke, going solo, it’s a goal. Support the Team, Support the Dream!’’ @fromkavaya (Chinhoiboy) “Just finished reading the piece on Fabisch and the Dream Team. That Class of ‘94 cannot be compared! Reinhard was not average! If it was not for Issa Hayatou, we could have gone somewhere. Reinhard was a genius. Good players don’t guarantee wins. The manager matters.’’ Kumbi Mamombe “Undefeated in AFCON qualifying, enough said. The Dream Team is yet to be eclipsed, the bar has been lowered considerably, we can now drift into AFCON being average. Fabisch and the boys found the elusive tonic and, until the stars align again, no one can take that from them.’’ Makomborero Mutimukulu “Ultimately, they went down in history as the nearly men. They failed to join the big table, close but not good enough. However, they had national appeal, everyone gave them their soul and cried with them when they lost. But who gave this team the moniker Dream Team? Dreams seldom come true, they made the nation dream alright but when Kalusha scored that header at the NSS with 12 mins to go, we all woke up. And it was painful, sadly you don’t stay in Dreamland. The name was a curse. To their credit, those lads cannot be faltered for lack of effort, they left it all on the park, including their skin and that all we ask of national team players. These days it’s difficult to trust some boys with the national badge, they act like they are doing us a favour.’’ More Moyo “Dream Team was just a dream, nothing more . . . 2004 – 2006 we had the real Warriors!’’ Cephas Chimedza “I personally think it’s easier to qualify in a home and away system than round robin. Chances are high of springing a surprise.’’ Gerald Maguranyanga “I was privileged to work and travel with the Warriors for more than 10 years but later days pale into insignificance when compared to the Dream Team of the ‘90s. Incredible nationalist passions aroused. Only similar time was 2004 at RGMIA (Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport) when we left for AFCON. One or two survivors from the Dream Team, such as Peter Ndlovu, Agent Sawu carried on the passion into AFCON 2004. Truth told, it was easier to qualify for AFCON since 2004. Before then, AFCON was a smaller group and a mountain to climb. The Dream Team was lit, heady days, I had a good working relationship with all my players. It was fun. Fact remained — Class of 2004 was nowhere near the sultry, captivating magic of Peter Ndlovu, Bruce Grobbelaar, and others that drive the Dream Team. It is what it is.’’ Mufaro Masuka “Personally, no Warriors Team has ever played better than the Dream Team. Qualification for AFCON and World Cup finals was extremely tough, then. Comparing players over the decades will show that the Dream Team was a phenomenal side. The Dream Team gave us religious and infectious performances. I remember driving with six friends all the way from Chiredzi (449kms) to come and watch the Dream Team versus Black Stars. Every game was a classic performance from the lads.’’ Mike Madoda “What I’ll say to the generation that never watched the Dream Team or those that sneer with cynicism at their so-called failure, is simply this- no legend is born out of mediocrity. Fabisch’s boys made us dream and it was one hell of a ride! Now we can only dream of those days.’’ Kain Konje “I’m an arsenal fan and one of the things which humbles us, as fans, is the fact that we’ve never won Uefa Champions League, no matter how good our brand of football is, or was, in soccer results will always judge you . . . I’ve nothing against the Dream Team but the hype and the results don’t tally.’’ Ronnie Tadzungaira “It will take us a long time to see NSS full to capacity like those days of Dream Team.’’ Faith Matibvu “The Dream Team was in my view the best of our football teams. Everything about the Dream Team was about being an Alpha and not the Omega. It was a project that was supposed to be carried forward to the next level. What happened after was not about the team but the game’s administrative issues. The Dream Team can be credited and remembered as the only organisation in Zimbabwe to have well, and truly united this nation, even when they lost games, we embraced them as OURS.’’ Forward Nyanyiwa “The Dream Team united our nation. A team in the top 10 without an AFCON finals dance! Pound for pound, they were a better team — Peter-Musona, Shonhayi-Hadebe, Nomara-Munetsi, Khama-Digital, Bruce-Chipezeze, Nakamba-Nkonjera, Mudimu-Chawanda.’’ The Rock “The team was laden with so much talent, great team spirit. Unfortunately we had a manager who wouldn’t take any advice resulting in him continuously using some players whose form had dimmed. There were moments his team required sprucing up to enable player competition.’’