The Herald Chelon Nyabote: Great Zimbabwe University We are all anticipant of those rare moments that chisel our lives into the artefacts of immaculate value. As we grew up we had our dreams to keep us warm. They kept a perimeter flame to let no hope escape. As we progress further we realise that this perimeter was to shield us from all the turmoil around us just as much as we are aware that our childhood dreams may never burst into life as readily as we hoped. Education paves a way to make that a reality and set these aspirations into motion. The feeling I have as I enter the university campus is remarkable. It’s a fusion of anxiety and hopefulness. As I turn back to wave my final goodbye to my father, I can feel the modest high school being swallowed up by this gigantic space in an instant. His last words still ring in my ears and have been, in the corner of an eye, moistened into a tiny teardrop. My whole life flashes in front of me; all the sleepless nights and the beatings, this is where they come into play. For once, I notice how tiny I am in this pond and can feel knowledge overwhelm me like a torrent. The keys they hand me are not so much for my personal room than they are to unlock all doors of opportunities for me. The zeal is up the roof and freedom can now use the front door. In my mind there is more space in this shared compartment than there is room for failure. If my own ambitions do not drive me well enough, then the large sums of tuition fees paid will take over the steering wheel. I begin to cherish the simplicity of my black and white uniform as I fumbled for clothes that I deemed unpopular among my peers. With freedom come responsibilities my high school never told me about. The silver spoons my teachers used to feed me notes with had to be transformed into handy tools to dig up information for some demanding assignments. The notion that university life is a walk in the park was as obnoxious as the scant motivation we were given during our transition from high school. When my roommate invited me for a drink my refusal would have been as alien as the assignments on my desk. The energy from the bottle was toxic and yet perplexing and alluring. I mused over this sensory perception and realised that only the droplets of blood on my faded jeans could help me recall what I may have done when I visited her room. The repercussions would taunt me for my hand trembled as I tried to reconstruct the paintings of my tomorrow. Hope, however, is never a casualty. The issue of joblessness taunting graduates almost makes the hope of failure supersede the eagerness to pass. Had my grandmother been hovering over my mind, she would have fished out this, though with a whip.  Siyamanga Zweni: Stellenbosch University There are a lot of challenges but the outstanding one is being exposed to the actual reality, and suddenly recognising everything you have been told was nice is the exact opposite. For example, in high school one of the most popular things we are told by teachers and visiting students, is how nice it is to be alone and to have all the independence in the world. They all glow in their descriptions of their first years. So you come in expecting to have the best time of your life. You panic when you start to experience the total opposite of what has been painted for you. One other challenge is actually realising that you didn’t really know who you are. You get to be in different situations that lead you to discover new things about yourself. The biggest challenge is doing the degree for yourself and not for anyone else. In high school, when you are a top performing student and then get to university, it is a humbling environment because everyone was top in their schools. You work so hard and are often disappointed by the results. You end up stressing all the time when people from your neighbourhood or high school reference you as a good example. Deep down you are haunted by the sense that you have disappointed everyone who believes in you. That affects your mental health.  Evans Nkomo: Stellenbosch University The introduction of online lessons presents a different scenario altogether. Full-time degree programmes will, to an extent be possible to conduct remotely, however, physical attendance is always better. The transition from high school to university is not that straight forward because there is even greater freedom, especially if one opts for online learning. But emerging from an environment where one is forced to one where you are dependent on the screen is a huge adjustment. All mentorship programmes need resetting so that new students can get assistance in coping with this new approach to learning and all high schools should adopt that way of teaching.  Chipo Mazarura: Zimbabwe Ezekiel Guti University Students preparing for their examinations are working hard, however, the uncertainty around when students will be getting back to school appears to be misleading others into a relaxation mode. Most students, especially those in Part One of their programmes, appear to have limited studying resources, compounded by limited knowledge of how campus life operates. This is because they had attended lectures for only three weeks when lockdown came into effect. So, preparing for examinations at home seems to be extremely difficult for them. 