The Herald Gaudencia Shumba Midlands State University Higher and tertiary students from various institutions face problems during their work-related attachments, with most not receiving an allowance at all. While some do get paid, the point of contention is that whatever they are getting is not enough. There are number that do not have any problems at all as they receive stipends, which in some cases exceed expectations. This goes to show that the money offered by the Zimbabwe Manpower Development Fund (ZIMDEF) is used properly and fairly within other companies in Zimbabwe. But in some of the cases, non-payment of stipends/allowances has led to female students being open to sexual abuse while on attachment. Quite a number of tertiary institutions in Zimbabwe require one to go on attachment before graduating. During this work-related learning period, one of the major problems students face is that of not getting allowances. It is important to remind ourselves that students on attachment need money for transport to and from places of attachment, food and in some cases, allowances to cover rentals. In cases where the student on attachment does not receive an allowance, the student has to raise money to cover food, transport and rental requirements because the student would be working away from home. Even in cases where the student doubles effort compared to permanent employees at the place of attachment, there is no stipend offered. There is no sign of the Zimbabwe Manpower Development Fund (ZIMDEF) or the Government coming in to the aid of students on work-related learning and this has led to students lodging complaints with the people in authority at the various places of attachment. During interviews for attachment, students are promised allowances and the stipends are in writing, but it seems the students have to beg to some managements before they can also benefit. The suspicion is that at some companies certain individuals could be helping themselves to allowances due to students on attachment. As a result female students are coerced into exchanging sexual favours before they can benefit from allowances they are ordinarily entitled to during industrial attachment. The plea is that all students on attachment be treated equally at the different work places during the time they are on work-related learning. Receiving an allowance boosts a student’s morale and efficiency while on industrial attachment. Patson Chiumia Midlands State University Tertiary students in Zimbabwe should adapt and embrace online learning as a key ingredient in implementing Education 5.0 in post-coronavirus academic calendar. Education 5.0 entails that tertiary students must be equipped with skills that transform them to become innovative towards societal development through transformative science and technology knowledge application to deliver a competitive, industrialised and modernised Zimbabwe. Universities must upgrade their self-service e-Learning online platforms for them to be effective in delivering theoretical lectures online. Lecturers should post onto these e-Learning platforms only recommended books, video tutorials, course outlines based on the respective degree programmes. This will create more time for students to conduct additional practical lectures instead of spending more time on theory. Other stakeholders such as the Government and service providers especially those in the telecommunications business should ensure that the self-service online e-Learning platforms are accessible to every tertiary student toll-free to create an enabling environment for online learning to work efficiently without the stress of data bundles. Students, however require to undergo a change in attitude and focus on the goal of realising Education 5.0 initiative so that Zimbabwe achieves Vision 2030 of being a middle-income economy. Branton Matondo Midlands State University The student of today encounters a host of inconsistencies, obstacles and temptations. Some give in and some reject, but there is always that one very stubborn temptation. What is the prominent obstacle stumbled upon by a typical Zimbabwean student? Peer pressure would appear to be the answer. It entails a situation where a student of probably the same age or status attempts to persuade or coerce another into doing something. In the majority of cases, the “something” is usually, largely negative. Male students, for example, are swayed into smoking marijuana, drug abuse and sugar mummies – older women, who prefer relationships with younger men – while female students dare each other into transactional relationships with older men, termed “blessers”, excessive merriment and in some cases, prostitution. The above scenarios are usually the results of peer pressure. The current situation with “blessers” has chocked student sanity. Female students engage in economic relationships with adult individuals. Research indicates that most of the so-called “blessers” are older than the students they ensnare. Anyone with economic muscle is eligible to be a “blesser”. The issue is that these blessers are usually husbands, with wives and children. Male students also engage in monetary-motivated relationships with sex-hungry women, commonly referred to as “sugar mummies”, who are the female versions of “blessers”. Sugar mummies are usually wealthy women, leading lavish lifestyles and are generous with their wealth. The whole set up is a game of sex, amidst luxury. Peer pressure is nothing but a game of coercion. In most cases, the victim of peer pressure already has latent interest in the transaction they eventually enter into. The university being a “home away from home” and a site of additional untested freedom becomes an ideal platform for one to explore such activities and relationships. My suggestion to fellow students is: “know where you started, where you are and where you wish to go”.