The Herald Herald Reporter THE Zanu PF Youth League has condemned some unscrupulous G40 members who are using social media threats to bring  President Mnangagwa and the First Family’s name into disrepute. The youths said they were standing by the President against such unwarranted abuse. At a press conference at the party headquarters in Harare yesterday, the league’s acting Deputy Secretary, Cde Tendai Chirau, said they were worried with the trend on social media. He was flanked by 10 provincial youth executive members, among them Cdes Kelvin Mutsvairo Mashonaland East, Brian Munyoro (Masvingo), Vengai Musengi (Mashonaland West), Godfrey Gomwe (Harare), Nkhumbulani Mpofu (Bulawayo), Lens Ruwizhu (Mashonaland Central), Tawanda Mukodza (Manicaland), Edmore Samambwa (Midlands), Tamuka Nyoni (Matabeleland North) and Washington Nkomo (Matabeleland South). Cde Chirau said the Youth League was disappointed with the mischievous discourse being peddled on social media. “Whilst the Youth League acknowledges and appreciates the rights to freedom of expression entitled to the Zimbabwe populace, the league will never stand akimbo whilst the name of the party, its leadership and including the First Family, are being brought into disrepute,” he said. “A right ceases to be a right once it starts to be used as a weapon to infringe upon other people’s rights. As such, the Youth League wishes to send a stern warning to all those unscrupulous members abusing the social media to quench their thirst for mischief that the end to their shenanigans is nigh.” Cde Chirau warned some elements such as former police Commissioner-General Augustine Chihuri and former Zanu PF youth Secretary for Commissariat Mr Godfrey Tsenengamu for peddling falsehoods and attacking the person of President Mnangagwa. “As the vanguard of the party, we are very much aware that the enemy is not sleeping, trying to find means to remove a democratically elected Government. This is also exhibited by the likes of Jimu Kunaka and Hopewell Chin’ono’s antics who, on several occasions, have unsuccessfully tried to mobilise young Zimbabweans into the streets through social media.”