The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
ONE of the country’s finest midfielders, Johannes “Tshisa” Ngodzo has warned players they risk an abrupt end to their careers if they engage in money games during the COVID-19 induced national lockdown. A number of players contracted to Division One and Premier Soccer League clubs, especially in Harare, have in the past weeks been seen playing money games in various suburbs in the capital. Several high-profile players were seen playing what appeared to be a well-organised match at Budiriro 3 Community Grounds where winners pocketed US$120. CAPS United’s Blessing Sarupinda, Ngezi Platinum’s Devon Chafa and Dynamos’ Barnabas Mushunje some of the players that have been playing in the money games. Highlanders’ new striker, Michelle Katsvairo, who earlier last month was seen in the company of Rodreck Mutuma during one of the matches, denied taking part in any of the games. He said he was just a mere spectator. Ngodzo said such activities were risky. “What they are doing is not good at all, yes we know it’s been long without football but to then engage in those money games is not only totally unprofessional but risky,’’ said Ngodzo. “They must know that careers can come to a brutal end and once you are injured in such games, you must forget about any assistance from your employers. “Injuries in such games can’t be ruled out because as long as there is money involved, tackles are always going to be hard so I would really urge those involved to stop this defiance forthwith.’’ The former Highlanders and Warriors star midfielder’s promising career was also cut short by an ankle injury while on national team duty. Ngodzo, who won the ZIFA Southern Region Division One championship as coach of Bantu Rovers in 2016, said if the players want to keep fit, they should do individual exercises. “Our livelihood is derived from football, organised football that is, but when you find yourself playing money games, that is lack of vision,’’ he said. “How much are you going to get from such matches compared to what you tend to lose in the event of an injury? “Even if you win and share the winning purse, you can’t even buy two loaves of bread but you would probably have destroyed your career. “As long as there is money, the tempo of the game changes, hard tackles become the order of the day which, naturally, can lead to an end to one’s career. “Yes, the lockdown due to Covid-19 is affecting everyone but it’s still not a reason to risk having your career coming to an end.”