The Herald This article touches on reports by external, internal and forensic auditors and their use at law, especially in disciplinary proceedings, criminal or civil litigation. Godknows Hofisi Types of auditors
Independent external auditors are engaged to audit an entity’s books of accounts and express an opinion on whether the audited financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the financial position of the entity and the results of its operations for a period.  Conversely, internal auditors are usually an entity’s employees and focus on reviewing and improving internal systems. Forensic auditors, who are usually outsiders, are specialist auditors hired to carry out financial investigations. Types of audit reports and their use
Reports by independent external auditors The auditors test certain systems of accounting and internal controls, vouch some transactions by referring to source documents and also perform analytical reviews. They verify if the financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRIS”). Independent external auditors, do not certify the financial statements but may express one of the following audit opinions: The reports by the independent external auditors may be used by: Negative audit opinions or management reports may trigger changes to the board, management or staff including employee internal disciplinary proceedings. Internal audit reports
Internal audit reports usually cover: Internal auditors may also carry out audit investigations on suspected irregularities. Internal audit reports may be used for the following purposes: Forensic audit reports These reports may contain evidence of violations, prejudice and possible reasons for the violations and may be used for staff disciplinary proceedings, criminal or civil litigation. Key considerations at law Audit reports can therefore be used by parties to legal processes. For example, an employer will attempt to use the internal or forensic audit report to prove that: Further considerations Godknows Hofisi is a legal practitioner, chartered accountant, corporate rescue practitioner, and consultant in deal structuring and tax. He writes in his personal capacity. He can be contacted on +263 772 246 900 or gohofisi@gmail.com.