The Herald lvy Z Chiwaya Empandeni High School Student I would like to thank Angel of Hope Foundation, spearheaded by the First Lady of Zimbabwe, Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa, for outstanding work in mitigating the effects of the novel coronavirus-19 (Covid-19). The First Lady has shown herself as a mother figure of great inspiration. Amai Mnangagwa’s work through her foundation has benefited many souls in the country. The First Lady’s work was there for all to see when the country was ravaged by Cyclone Idai in 2019. The Angel of Hope Foundation donated assorted goods to the needy in the provinces worst hit. Amai Mnangagwa went as far as partnering with women from various churches and well-wishers in the “Poto neNdiro” campaign which benefited many people. One inspirational act I did not see coming was when the First Lady obtained a Class One driver’s licence, inspiring girls to take up opportunities as professional bus drivers. Just as we thought she had done more than enough, her Foundation again co-ordinated the receipt of 50 000 masks, 510 protective suits and 1000 goggles from different Chinese companies to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The donations will be pivotal in the country’s health sector. The First Lady also donated food hampers to senior citizens from all the five Hurungwe constituencies.  In addition, Amai Mnangagwa donated a wheelchair and money for groceries to Masango Dexter. We all have been encouraged to give through her selfless acts. Amai Mnangagwa has a vegetable garden situated at the back of her office which provides food to individuals in a number of communities. The Angel of Hope Foundation has travelled the length and breadth of Zimbabwe on Covid-19 awareness and prevention programmes. On behalf of the girl child, I would like to thank the First Lady again for a job well done. Amai is indeed a great mother, who promotes love, unity and youth empowerment among people. Lastly, l would also like to extend gratitude to all the well-wishers who have partnered the Angel of Hope Foundation. Tinotenda, Siyabonga.