The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter The late Biggie Zuze’s son, Brian, says the family had lost a “great dad” following the sudden death of the Dynamos assistant coach in Harare on Thursday. Zuze’s burial has provisionally been set for tomorrow in Bindura. Brian, who turned 27 this year, is the eldest in the family of two boys. He said his father left priceless lessons for him and his brother, 24-year old Biggie (Junior). “In all fairness, he was a great dad. Very quiet, humble but firm,’’ said Brian. “We could laugh, have lots of fun together and we will truly miss the great moments we shared with him. “He had so much passion for football, he coached me as a junior but, somehow, I didn’t feel like continuing with football. “But, he was the kind of person who would push you to the limit and I will take it as a lesson, from my father for me and my young brother, to be always focused in life. “This man we are mourning today worked very hard to make sure we are counted in life. “It was painful to hear about his death. In fact, it came as a big surprise. It was shocking.’’ Zuze died in Harare on Thursday, at the age of 55, after a short illness. The former midfield star had no known underlying health conditions. His family said he complained of breathing complications, in the morning, and was rushed to a private medical facility at High Glen in Harare, where he died in the afternoon. Mourners are gathered at the family home in Stoneridge. Brian said the body was set for post-mortem today and burial has been provisionally set for tomorrow in Bindura. Zuze made his name at Dynamos in the 1980s after joining the Glamour Boys in 1983. At the time of his death, Zuze was the assistant coach to Tonderai Ndiraya DeMbare. ZIFA yesterday joined the nation in mourning the loss of the star. “The Zimbabwe Football Association learnt, with great sadness, the passing of Dynamos assistant coach Biggie Zuze. “We convey our sincere condolences to his family, Dynamos Football Club, and the local football family at large. “We cannot begin to imagine the amount of pain the tragic loss of a father, brother, uncle, colleague, coach and friend has brought. “Football has lost a loyal, dedicated and long-serving servant. “Biggie’s big heart was just what our game needed,” said ZIFA spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela.