The Herald Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu Gwanda Correspondent
FARMERS in Insiza District have partnered with a South African based investor to establish an 800-hectare irrigation project at an estimated cost of about R20 million. The project seeks to revive Further Stone Irrigation, which has been lying idle for over the past 10 years. The development is set to help improve food supply in the district and the entire province of Matabeleland South. It will also create employment for the local community. Insiza District Development Coordinator, Mr Zacharia Jusah, said the target for this year under the project was to plant 66 hectares. He explained that five local A2 farmers had partnered with a South African based investor, Louis Leroux, to see the project through. “We have a project underway to establish an 800 hectare irrigation in Insiza. There used to be an irrigation in the area but the land has been lying idle for the past 10 years to the extent that all the canals are obsolete and need replacement,” said Mr Jusah. “Five farmers from the area through Government have partnered with a South African investor known as Louis Leroux to establish this irrigation. “They are in the process of developing 66 hectares, which is land earmarked to have been planted by the end of the year. So far, 50 locals have been employed under the project to build various structures that are needed on sight. This project will go a long way in ensuring availability of food at local markets. It will also create employment for many people,” he said. Mr Jusah said once preparation of the 66 hectares of land was completed part of the land will be earmarked for livestock fodder production towards export. He said the remaining land will be earmarked for maize production. Mr Jusah said in the long run a milling plant would be established near the irrigation to ensure that milling was done on sight. He said challenges being faced at the moment were delays in moving farming equipment across the border. “This is an important project as it falls under Vision 2030, which seeks to ensure food security and job creation. Farmers have been encouraged to identify land that is lying idle and engage investors so that this land is developed to ensure food security and job creation,” he said. “This is what these five farmers have done under this project. They have identified land, which is lying idle in their areas and are now working on developing it. We want to see more investment in strategic areas such as food security and export,” said Mr Jusah.