The Herald Arts Reporter Rising musician Panganai Hare has engaged dancer and singer Francis “Franco Slomo”Dhaka, comedian Kapfupi and his wife Precious “Mai Nga” Kabrito on his latest video titled “Chibhakera”. Hare, who is popularly known as Mukoma Panga, said he engaged the fellow musicians to bring variety to the production and he seems to have hit the correct chord. With the song “Chibhakera” already topping charts, the video has enhanced the popularity of the audio with its exciting visuals. Kapfupi brings in his comic style on scenes with Mai Nga, attracting viewers to the message of the song in an interesting way. Franco Slomo and his crew of dancers show off good skills that makes good break-segments to the sungura video, giving it the variety that lacks in most productions from this genre. Although Franco Slomo was engaged for the video when his social life had already taken an ugly turn while his career appears to be on rocks, the dancer did his best to show that he still has skill and fancy footwork. The dancer’s plight came to the fore recently when The Herald broke the story of how he went separate ways with his wife and was left to take care of their toddlers. Faced with the hard situation that artistes have been experiencing in the lockdown and a messy family scenario, Franco confessed that all is not well for him. Many well-wishers are currently assisting him with various donations. Although the video was shot before the intervention of Good Samaritans, Franco’s performance on set does not show a grieving character and Mukoma Panga said it did not take long to shoot the video because of experienced participants who were part of the cast. The singer has made it a tradition to work with fellow artistes to enhance his videos following the success of his previous production “Panganayi” that features comedian Madam Boss. “I am happy with the reception I have had so far and I am confident that we will be able to send the message in a clearer way. The song was received well and it has been on top position on local charts. The coming of the video has increased its demand,” said Mukoma Panga. He worked with experienced instrumentalists on the audio, making the whole project a compression of immense talent. “Fans have been asking for live shows and we are now working towards that. We are utilising the current lockdown to put our preparations in order and we want to come with a good set for the live shows and start as the lockdown opens space for live performances. “We want to thank everyone who supported our projects and assure them that this is a journey which promises good things. We are looking forward for a future of more achievements.” In the first year of his music career, Mukoma Panga has been nominated for prestigious awards and his songs have topped charts. The former music promoter draws experience from working with the likes of Alick Macheso, Tongai Moyo, Simon Chimbetu, Oliver Mtukudzi, Cephas Mashakada, Beater Mangethe and Suluman Chimbetu among other singers during his many years in show- biz.