The Herald BERLIN. — European football giants Bayern Munich opened a 10-point lead at the top of the German Bundesliga on Saturday with a 5-0 drubbing of relegation-threatened Fortuna Dusseldorf behind closed doors with the league’s top-scorer Robert Lewandowski scoring twice. Duesseldorf defender Mathias Joergensen scored an early own goal before Benjamin Pavard, Lewandowski (2) and Alphonso Davies hit the target. With five games left, Bayern, who have won their last eight league games, are comfortably on course for an eighth straight league title. However, second-placed Borussia Dortmund were yesterday looking at trimming their lead at bottom side Paderborn. Several records fell as Lewandowski now has 43 goals in all competitions, a season’s best for the Poland striker with games in hand. Also head coach Hansi Flick claimed his 22nd win in his first 25 games, bettering the start made by Pep Guardiola when he took charge in 2013. “Statistics and records don’t interest me, what’s important is to have a successful season,” said Flick, in his first season since replacing Niko Kovac in November. “At Bayern Munich, you are expected to win. I am very happy, we were very aggressive and didn’t give them any chances.” Lewandowski, who had never previously scored in six games against Duesseldorf, made amends with goals either side of half-time. Fortuna, who were unbeaten in their three games since the league resumed after a two-month coronavirus-enforced hiatus, were humbled at the Allianz Arena where they last poached a 3-3 draw in November 2018. They fell behind on 15 minutes when Joergensen turned the ball into his own net after Pavard mishit his shot. Right-back Pavard then grabbed the second with a powerful header on 29 minutes before Lewandowski made it 3-0 just before the break after being presented with a tap-in by Thomas Mueller. Duesseldorf were floored with two goals in as many minutes as Lewandowski profited again with another poacher’s goal after Serge Gnabry’s good work.  — AFP.