The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S promising sprinter, Ngoni Makusha, says going back to normal training is a huge step towards boosting the efforts he has been making to stay in shape. Makusha is one of the several athletes the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe are pinning their hopes on to meet the qualifying times for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. The showcase has been moved to next year. Zimbabwe’s chef de mission, Thabani Gonye, said athletics was one of the disciplines they had targeted to provide many athletes for the Olympics. Makusha said the lifting of the restrictions, which prohibited sporting activities, will help his cause as he will get the time he needs to get ready for the resumption of qualifying events. Low-risk sport codes, including athletics, can now resume their activities provided they are cleared by authorities. They have to comply with Government directives meant to stop the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Only track events have been approved. “I am really happy about this development, seeing that we have the Olympics next year, I need to be prepared as much as I can,’’ he said. “That means I have to train and stay fit, so the go ahead to start training is really great for us. “The Olympic qualification resumes in December this year, this gives me adequate time to prepare so that I can be ready by then.” Makusha said they were yet to discuss with his coach how they will proceed as they await communication from the national association. “I have been doing jogs, hill runs and some body workouts and trying to eat healthy, of course,’’ he said. “It’s been really helpful, I feel I fitter and I have been using the time to work on my weaker muscles and strengthen them, so I wouldn’t say I lost much. “I am not yet sure about the way forward as we are waiting for the association to see how we will be able to train and the use of facilities, the measures we are supposed to be taking and what we can’t do. “So, as soon as they give us the go-ahead on how we can move forward, we will definitely resume training.” Makusha made his second appearance at the African Championships in 2018 and has been working his way to try and run at the Olympics. South African-based Rutendo Nyahora has also indicated she will be going a gear up in her training after authorities in that country moved their national lockdown to Level Three this week. Both Makusha and Nyahora are part of the beneficiaries of the Olympic athletes scholarships to enhance their chances of qualifying for the global sports showpiece.