The Herald Herald Reporter China has called for unity and co-operation among nations in fighting against the spread of Covid-19 and finding collective lasting solutions to the pandemic that has caused havoc globally. This came out in a paper entitled “Fighting Covid-19: China in Action” which outlines the country’s efforts in fight against the virus, the experience with the rest of the world and clarifies Chinese ideas on the global battle. China firmly believes through unity of purpose, the international community will succeed in overcoming the pandemic, and will emerge from the dark moment in human history into a brighter future. The paper states that preventing and controlling the spread of the virus has become a fight to safeguard global public health, to secure the well-being of humanity, to maintain world prosperity, and to enforce morality and conscience on the international community. “It is a fight that will determine the future of the human race. We have no other choice but to overcome the pandemic. The international community must find resolve and forge unity. Solidarity means strength. The world will win this battle,” read the document. China believes that although the pandemic may have a significant impact on the development of humanity, the people’s longing for a happy life will remain unchanged. “Peace, development, and win-win co-operation will prevail. The sun will always shine again after a storm. As long as the world’s peoples can cherish hopes and dreams, can embrace the idea of a global community of shared future, and can unite in pursuit of a common goal, we will be able to overcome all our current difficulties and challenges, and build a better world for all. “Every country has a choice to make. China believes that all countries should make the choice that is right for the interests of all humanity and the wellbeing of our future generations. “Upholding the vision of a global community of shared future, we should support each other and join hands to contain the spread of the virus, and protect the health and well-being of people across the globe,” reads the document. China also expressed appreciation to the support from the international community which provided support and assistance to that country and its people. Leaders of more than 170 countries, heads of 50 international and regional organisations and more than 300 foreign political parties and organisations expressed solidarity and support for China through phone calls, letters, and statements. Seventy-seven countries and 12 international organisations donated emergency medical supplies, while local governments, enterprises, non-governmental organisations and people from 84 countries also donated different materials. “The BRICS New Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank provided emergency loans of RMB7 billion and RMB2,485 billion, while the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank offered loans for the building of China’s public health emergency management system. “China appreciates the understanding and support of the international community, which our people will always cherish. The Chinese nation never forgets the help and generosity it receives, and always reciprocates with the same goodwill,” said the paper. China has also been helping other nations in fighting against Covid-19. The country has been carrying out exchanges and co-operation with the international community from the outset. “It has strengthened high-level communication, shared information, and co-operated in scientific research with international organisations and other countries, and done all it could to provide assistance, contributing ingenuity and strength to the global fight against the coronavirus. “The Communist Party of China (CPC) has issued a joint appeal with 240 political parties in more than 110 countries, calling on all stakeholders to put people’s lives and health first, uphold the vision of a global community of shared future, and pull together to combat the international and regional organisations,” states the paper. China has also provided humanitarian assistance to the international community and has provided two batches of cash support totalling US$50 million to the WHO, assisted the organisation in purchasing personal protective equipment and establishing reserve centres of supplies in China, and helped its Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund to raise funds in China. “As of May 31, China had sent 29 medical expert teams to 27 countries, and offered assistance to 150 countries and four international organisations,” said the paper.