The Herald Fashion 263
Temperatures are continuing to dip and according to the weather forecast, tomorrow the country will record the lowest degrees. Are we ready for such weather and how prepared are you? The good thing is that apart from the chilly weather, tomorrow is Father’s Day and dads ought to be treated and stay fashionable. Of course, there is nothing much that can be done to celebrate the day outside the home because of coronavirus that has affected most countries. If you need to give your father something along fashion lines, then you should have winter clothing in mind. A tracksuit is a must-have this winter. Give him a tracksuit and remember no matter how you style the tracksuit, they give warmth and new feel of fashion. Yes, tracksuits can look extremely stylish too. Well tracksuits — or athleisure as the elite would love to call them — have been a huge trend in the last few years and it does not look like it is going anywhere anytime soon. When we talk about track suits, the names that pop into one’s head are Under Armour, Puma, Nike, Fila, Adidas and other sportswear brands but now that the trend is so huge, labels which do not specialise in athletic clothes are also doing it. For example Gucci, Prada Zara and Armani have joined the bandwagon. Most men have ditched have ditched the jean trousers because it does not keep them warm. The only option left now is the tracksuit and there are many ways you can rock your tracksuit to work, gym and at home. According to some fashionistas, the golden rule to slay winter is ‘layering’. Not only will it keep you warm, but it will make you look completely stylish too. You can layer your tracksuit jacket with a trench coat or a denim jacket that is if you want to have the casual look. For ladies, net heels are the in thing and you can still look gorgeous in your tracksuit but this look should not be near office otherwise you might be mistaken for a choreographer. Remember it is the tracksuit that should stand out and no one will be able to recognise it if you pair it with funny stuff. It is winter and dark colours should dominate. If you want to add a little sparkle, best way to wear a tracksuit to a party (there are house parties going around via virtual platforms) you can wear a knit top with the sweat pants, then you can throw on the jacket halfway and add a little bling with accessories or a metallic overcoat. Gentlemen, the weather is getting cold by day, tracksuit is a must-have for every guy. For a good look style pair your tracksuit with your favourite sneaker and unlike ladies, your sneakers are your accessories, so shine upon them. Men, please note, when wearing your favourite soccer tracksuit or designer tracksuit, avoid wearing a scarf otherwise you will ruin the outfit. The golden rule is layering so do not worry, just wear more but avoid the scarf. Enjoy Father’s Day.