The Herald LIVERPOOL. — Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has criticised England’s handling of the coronavirus crisis, revealing he feels like an alien for continuing to take it seriously. Klopp has pointed an accusing finger at Boris Johnson for his handling of the coronavirus crisis. The Liverpool boss believes the Tory government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic is the reason why the UK’s death toll from the disease is one of the highest in the world. Klopp insists that Project Restart and the opportunity for him to deliver ­Liverpool’s first English Premiership football title for 30 years were nothing more than professional ­considerations for him during the ­three-month lockdown. He admits he was worried that the season would be declared null and void with his team 25 points clear at the top of the English Premier League. But the German’s frustration at watching the inability of Johnson to plot a safe path for the ­nation through the health ­crisis was compounded by the effective way politicians dealt with the virus in his homeland. Despite seeing how hard the pandemic hit Italy and Spain, the UK struggled to prepare for the virus with over 300 000 confirmed cases and 42 000 deaths to date. During its peak, there were fears the English Premier League football season would be abandoned completely with Klopp himself conceding he became fully aware of that possibility. But despite those sporting concerns, Klopp has stressed his real focus has remained on matters off the pitch as he noted the major difference in how England and Germany have dealt with the coronavirus. “I was not worried for one second that the ­government could cost us the title because I was worried about the numbers who were dying — and I’m still worried,” Klopp said. “I didn’t vote for this ­government. This government was the choice of other people. And the problem I had was that I got the news from England and the news from Germany. If aliens looked at us both from the outside, they would think we came from two different planets. “From a personal point of view, I don’t understand why we started wearing face masks in closed areas on June 15 when five or six weeks ago all the other countries were doing it. “You can argue about whether it makes sense to wear them, but all ­countries who started wearing face masks earlier have smaller casualty numbers than here in England. That’s the truth. “When I see the numbers here in ­England and then in Germany, I think. Look, it’s not perfect in Germany, people have died and have been ill. But, in terms of living your life, it is completely different. “If you want to enter a shop in Germany, but don’t wear a face mask, then you aren’t allowed in. With a face mask, you can go in all the shops you want. You can go to the hairdresser, wherever. “They wear a face mask, you wear a face mask, and sometimes the people in the shop will have even more ­protection like a screen. “When I go to the petrol ­station in England, I am the only one wearing a face mask and I’m the only one with gloves — I feel like an alien. I will not stop doing that until someone tells me it’s over. “But inside the club, we are safe. We are tested twice a week and it is a safe ­environment.” Johnson infamously ­labelled Liverpool “self-pity city” when he was a magazine ­editor 16 years ago. And when it became clear that the pandemic would have dire ­financial ­implications for millions of people, ­Government ministers were quick to call on footballers to take ­pay-cuts. Klopp described the game he loves as “the most important thing of the least important things” when football was suspended in March with Liverpool just six points away from clinching the title. And he has continued to insist that public health concerns must be at the front and centre of everyone’s thoughts. But Klopp admitted: “There were ­moments when null and void came up — and I thought, ‘Wow!’. “That would have been really hard to take for me. I always thought we had to finish the season, I didn’t know when, but then I saw that other ­people felt the same as me — that for 500million reasons we had to finish this. “None of those reasons was selfish. All of them were because of football and because of the circumstances we were in. “There are lots of people in the same situation. Can you imagine if we stopped football and cricket and rugby tomorrow? Think of all the jobs that would be in danger. “We had to have it back and the truth is that the environment we have created inside the clubs now makes football safe. Outside the clubs? Yes, there are a few yards still to go.” — Goal.com.