The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE heavy burden Gogo Lynett Gwanzura had to carry, raising her six children single-handedly, changed her completely. The 70-year-old was widowed in 1980 and, seven years later, she set up an orphanage, Wings of Hope, taking on board 79 children under the roof of her house. For over three decades, Gogo Gwanzura has toiled, including doing piece jobs, just to put smiles on the faces of her underprivileged extended family. Others have gone on to become engineers, teachers and nurses. “I decided to convert my family home into an orphanage, seven years after the death of my husband,” said Gogo Gwanzura. “The difficulties I endured, as I raised my six children left behind by my husband, pushed me into having that care for the children out there. “I started adopting those abandoned by their parents, the orphans and the underprivileged. “Over the years, some of my children have gone on to make it in life and others now live overseas. “I would like to thank God, these children always remember where they came from. Most of the children I have under my care here have their school fees paid by those who are now doing well but passed through this place.” Gogo Gwanzura’s story made Chevrons limited overs captain, Chamu Chibhabha, realise he needed to play his part. “Although I didn’t grow up in an orphanage or foster home, I have to admit that I wouldn’t have made my name in cricket had others not chipped in to help me,” said Chibhabha. “Look, I was a mere schoolboy playing cricket at Chipembere School in Highfield and some street cricket in the neighbourhood. “When I thought I was going nowhere and, before I even knew, I got a scholarship at Churchill School. “Had I not got that scholarship, most probably I wouldn’t have made it in the game. “Probably, I would have taken another route in life.” Chibhabha had never been involved in any charity work before but Gogo Gwanzura touched his heart. The dreadlocked all-rounder is already contemplating setting his own foundation, the Chamu Chibhabha Foundation. “You know, in life, there are always times when you don’t know what exactly you ought to be doing to fully appreciate the community,’’ he said. “The same can also be said about charity work. “It hadn’t crossed my mind that one day I would be doing charity work but this story (Gogo Gwanzura’s) has inspired me. “Imagine she has always made sure she puts a smile on each and every child under her wings for the past 33 years. “I am considering setting up a foundation to help others attain their dreams. “Resources permitting, I will make it a point that children from Gogo Gwanzura’s orphanage get the help they need.” Some of the children at the Wings of Hope Orphanage said they want to play cricket but the schools they attended did not have equipment for the sport. Chibhabha said he will look into their case. “Admittedly, the lockdown period is hurting but very necessary. It was something that just came abruptly, forcing everything to a standstill. “But, we have looked at the positives, we have self-introspected and, for me, I have realised the need to help others.” Chibhabha will in August lead the Chevrons on their tour of Australia and he hopes playing against one of the best teams in the world will help Zimbabwe improve their game.