The Herald Robson Sharuko, Senior Sports Editor, The Herald “As a player, he was one of those rare talents, as a coach, he battled long and hard, as a Dynamos son, he was loyal to the core and, more importantly, as a man, he was as good as they will ever come. What a shocker!, RIP Bindura Part 1, my brother Biggie Zuze. Andrew Kamanga, sports administrator “A mercurial talent, indeed. He defied odds with his average physical stature to dominate midfield battles. A brilliant pass master and uniquely unselfish in his approach to the game. May His dear soul rest in eternal peace!’’ Tito Paketh, Highlanders legend “I am totally distraught to learn of Biggie’s passing on. I hope it’s not true, please. Really bad and hard to stomach. Anyway, that’s life, it’s very short indeed. He has run his race. Seth Chigogora, former Dynamos team manager “He was a true DeMbare son, he gave everything for the cause of the club and to play in those great Dynamos sides, especially in midfield, where there was no hiding place, showed just how good he was. He was also a fine gentleman and it’s a shame he has died young. You will hardly come across anyone who tells you they had a problem with him.’’ Godfrey Japajapa, former Dynamos treasurer “You hear such news and you tell yourself that it’s not true, you struggle to convince yourself that a guy this nice, who never showed any signs of being ill, could die just like that. It was a pleasure working with Nzou and what a good man he was and he was also a very, very fine football player and coach.’’ Runyararo Musakwa “Very sad news indeed and a blow to local football. May his soul Rest in Peace.’’ Spencer Manguwa “Rest In Peace Gaffer. Our soccer is surely poorer without you. Gone too soon. You will be missed!’’ Raymond Majongwe, former Dynamos secretary-general “Bindura Part 1. Rest In Peace. Great player. Enjoyed working with you.’’ Cephas Chimedza, former DeMbare star “Rest in peace Nzou.’’ Tendai Muteswa “Legends don’t come any bigger, RIP Biggie. Thanks for the memories.’’