The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — It’s been 10 years since it was “time for Africa” and the 2010 FIFA World Cup remains a watershed of African excellence and achievement the continent continues to be proud of. The tournament, held from June 11 to July 11, 2010, attracted a total of 3 178 856 spectators to the 64 games, at 10 stadiums in nine South African host cities. It was shown in every single country and territory on Earth, including Antarctica and the Arctic Circle, with the final alone between Spain and Netherlands watched by over 900 million people. The tournament was watched by a cumulative 3.2 billion people globally, generating record-breaking viewing figures in many TV markets around the world, and enhancing South Africa’s status as a top tourism market in an abundance of new territories. Waka Waka, the official 2010 FIFA World Cup song by Colombian superstar Shakira and South Africa’s Freshlyground, has now been watched over 2.5 billion times on YouTube, and continues to vividly keep the memories of the tournament alive globally. Failure on an epic scale was predicted by global media for many years leading up to the tournament, but a flawless first African FIFA World Cup confounded the critics and showcased a new side of the continent to the globe. “The first FIFA World Cup on African soil was by all accounts a major success for a number of reasons. We wanted it to be a human story of celebrating the African continent, and for it to rise above South Africa’s apartheid-era past and build on Nelson Mandela’s message of social cohesion and reconciliation. We wanted the tournament to contribute to the building of a new South African nation, and while major challenges for our people still persist, South Africa’s democracy has considerably strengthened over the last decade and the country has made considerable forward strides,” says SAFA president, Danny Jordaan, who was the CEO of the 2010 FIFA World Cup Organising Committee South Africa.We celebrate the 10th anniversary of the 2010 FIFA World Cup at a very difficult time for our country and for the world, as we battle the devastating impact of the Coronavirus. “It is important, though, even in these uncertain and difficult times to reflect on an event that brought joy, pride and smiles to the faces of all Africans who love football and who cherish the advancement of their continent.” — SuperSport.com