The Herald MADRID. — Sevilla beat Real Betis in the Seville derby as the Spanish La Liga football returned after a three-month gap – with some teething problems off the pitch on Thursday. Groups of fans ignored guidance as they gathered outside the Ramon Sanchez-Pizjuan Stadium before the game, and some of the TV presentation left plenty to be desired. But in Lucas Ocampos the hosts had the key man to win the first match played in Spain since the coronavirus pandemic halted proceedings on March 10. La Liga is the second of Europe’s big five leagues to resume, with the English Premier League following suit next week. After a minute’s silence in memory of those who have died during the pandemic, La Liga returned with some new additions. As previously heard in Germany, there was artificial crowd noise. But unlike in Germany, the mix was way too low and almost inaudible for much of the game. The vast, empty stands were painted in ‘virtual support’ in what was sold beforehand as images of fans wearing club colours. The actual effect was extremely low key though, looking more like a collage of coloured dots which were only visible on the one wide camera shot, with the ‘crowd’ disappearing whenever the director changed angle, and sometimes hovering in mid-air when a replay appeared. At times, such as during some pre-arranged drinks breaks, the vacant stands displayed the message of “Safe sport, safe tourism – Spain welcomes you”. When tourists return to Seville remains to be seen, but Champions League football may well soon – the home side are now within six points of Real Madrid. Ocampos was the game’s key player throughout, rattling the crossbar from a narrow angle in the first half before breaking the deadlock from the penalty spot. He then conjured an ingenious backheeled flick from a corner to find Fernando for the game-sealing second goal, Sevilla celebrating the three points just after midnight local time. The match was the first to kick off in Spain’s top flight since March 10 and makes La Liga the second of Europe’s five major leagues to restart, after the Bundesliga in Germany returned on May 16. Despite the ban on fans, around 200 supporters, almost all masked against the virus, still gathered around the stadium, in the centre of the city. To greet them were around 600 police deployed on horseback. Streets were blocked and barriers erected around the ground before most of the fans eventually dispersed before the 10pm kick-off. The Seville derby is usually played in one of Spain’s most colourful atmospheres and in normal circumstances would have attracted a crowd of more than 40 000. “It’s very bizarre, it’s different. This derby behind closed doors makes us sad, but despite that it will still be intense,” said 23-year-old Laura Marin, a Sevilla supporter. — BBC Sport.