The Herald Herald Reporter
The ZANU PF Women and Youth leagues have joined progressive forces across the world in condemning the cold-bloodied murder of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, by a white police officer in the United States last week. In a statement yesterday, Zanu PF Secretary for Women’s Affairs, Cde Mabel Chinomona said it was important for the US to immediately take action in halting the wanton killings of unarmed black people, which have been on the rise in recent years. “Therefore, the Zanu PF Women’s League implores US authorities to take full charge of the need to engage this unchecked perpetuation of racism and resurgence of the abhorred traditions of slavery and imperialism. “Moreover, the simplistic and lazy labelling of Zimbabwe as an enemy of the US because some of our people driven by obvious moral values are condemning acts of racism, is telling of an irrational hegemony of the US and its unfettered political prejudice,” said Cde Chinomona. She said it was unfortunate the US had directed several instruments of adversity to Zimbabwe such as the illegal and unjustified economic sanctions, yet it goes ahead to declare Harare as an adversary. The Second Republic led by President Mnangagwa has embarked on an engagement and re-engagement drive aimed at mending relations with all countries. Cde Chinomona said Zimbabwe remained committed to a foreign policy underpinned by peaceful co-existence with the international community, adding that the Women’s League reaffirms its total support to President Mnangagwa’s to mend relations with all countries of the globe. “More importantly, the Women’s League remains committed to the fight against imperialism even to the last drop of our blood if need be,” she said. Zanu PF acting deputy Secretary for Youth Affairs, Cde Tendai Chirau, challenged US Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Mr Brain Nichols and the American government to unequivocally commit to treat the global community of nations as equals. He also demanded the immediate recognition of all people as “fellow human beings” with human rights as articulated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Youth League wants a sincere and public commitment to ensuring the immediate unconditional and complete removal of the unjustified, illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabweans by the American administration. Cde Chirau said Ambassador Nichols must offer an emphatic public apology on behalf of the US administration to the world in general, and to the global community of black Africans in particular, “for the wanton and seemingly deliberate murder of black people, such as that of George Floyd, perpetrated by white Americans, that are taking place on US soil with increasing impunity”.