The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
ZIFA have urged law enforcement agents to descend heavily on players and officials defying the national lockdown that was imposed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The stance by the national football mother body comes after reports that a number of players, contracted to Division One and Premier Soccer League clubs have, in the past few weeks, been seen engaging in money games, especially in Harare. ZIFA said they remained committed to making sure all their affiliates, and players, religiously adhere to the lockdown orders. The association said anyone who was found in defiance was, in fact, a criminal who should be decisively deal with by the police. “Football celebrates ethos of respect for rules and we find it extremely criminal to break lockdown rules,’’ said ZIFA spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela. ‘’We encourage the police to identify the perpetrators (who are) abusing football by breaking lockdown rules and bring them to book. ‘’ZIFA will also take stern action against those participating in any football activity during lockdown. COVID-19 is real.’’ This publication has it on good authority that a number of players from Ngezi Platinum, Black Rhinos, CAPS United, Harare City and Dynamos have been violating lockdown regulations by engaging in the illegal money games. Former Highlanders and Warriors’ star midfielder, Johannes Ngodzo, warned players against engaging in such games as they risked an abrupt end to their careers through injury. “They must know that careers can come to a brutal end and once you are injured in such games, you must forget about any assistance from your employers. “Injuries in such games can’t be ruled out because as long as there is money involved, tackles are always going to be hard, so I would really advise those involved to stop this defiance,” warned Ngodzo. The former Highlanders and Warriors’ star midfielder’s promising career was cut short by an ankle injury, while on national team duty against Eritrea.