The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — South African cricket doesn’t need to worry about Kagiso Rabada’s continued willingness to bleed for the Proteas cause. In his typically pithy but purposeful manner he says: “I’m 150 percent committed” The fact that the 25-year-old still needs to be asked that question is rather ironic given that he continues to receive ICC demerit points because, many believe, he lives out his passion for the national team. Nonetheless, there’s a fair argument to be made that Rabada’s 2019/20 season illustrated that he’s human after all. In the six Tests he played, he took 21 wickets at an average of 32.85, his most unproductive season at the highest level by some distance. Yet those are numbers that certain other international bowlers in the past would’ve been envious of, also providing hope that when Rabada reaches top form again he’ll be unstoppable. “The past season was a disappointment,” he said. “Even though my stats were okay, I just felt really rusty and a bit out of place. But I also realised that (international cricket) was never supposed to be easy and I’m now taking it day-by-day to achieve my new goals.” Rabada has been afforded plenty of down-time to reflect, but more importantly, has also been allowed the rest various conditioning experts were pleading for him to be given. He had been rested from two white-ball series against England and then played the three T20s against Australia, only to be ruled out of the subsequent 50-over battle as well as the abandoned short trip to India with a groin injury. “The past five years (since his debut) went by really fast and the volume of cricket that was played was substantial. I’m really glad I can get a rest, not in the way that it has come but I am really enjoying my time,” said Rabada. “It’s allowed me to think about what I really want and makes it easier to set goals.”He admitted that he hasn’t been engaging in too much technical work on his bowling — some would argue it’s already close to complete — but he is keen to harness and nurture his undoubted batting talent. “It’s important for a player to equip himself in all facets of the game. It enhances one’s versatility and gives the team a stronger chance of winning and ultimately that’s something I want to do. Wherever I can contribute will be great.” — AFP.