The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter MultiChoice has signed a deal with Netflix and Amazon to allow its users to access the two content providers’ services through DStv decoders. Netflix is an ever-growing streaming platform, while the Amazon Prime Video is a competitor and, for long, Multichoice has operated its streaming platform, Showmax. However, with such collaboration, all service providers will reach an even wider audience, possibly for lesser rates, controlling the industry and taking maximum profits from other competitors like the HBO. MultiChoice chief executive, Calvo Mawela while announcing the deal recently said that “We need to start preparing ourselves to make sure we become the platform of choice for people to consume these services”. “If you are a one-stop-shop where they can get all of this…we position ourselves very well in the market for us to gain customers,” said Mawela “The deal aligns with Multichoice’s bigger picture, to grow its linear business while capturing the streaming media audience. Company results reveal that the agreement will “position the business for the future, leverage on the group’s scale, and enhance the product ecosystem by providing access to a variety of content.” According to some sources, the deal will not only help Multichoice retain its subscriptions but also earn commissions and will be available through the new DStv Explora decoder. Mawela said the recently signed distribution agreements with two major international subscription video on demand providers will ensure that customers have access to a wider variety of content, all in a single place. “We have long been a content aggregator, and this is proof of our aggregator model at work — providing simplicity, choice and convenience for our customers,” Mawela said. “As our industry evolves, we believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from both worlds — a large, growing pay-TV market in Africa, as well as an emerging over-the-top (OTT) opportunity, where our own OTT services and aggregation capabilities can drive success,” he said. MultiChoice chief financial officer Tim Jacobs confirmed the news and said for now they cannot talk about the specifics until the formal consumer formal release. “We have signed distribution agreements with two major international subscription video-on-demand services. “Unfortunately, we are in a pre-release embargo period with both international players,” he said. MultiChoice, is a South Africa-based company that operates the DStv Satellite Television service, a major satellite TV service in Sub-Saharan Africa.