The Herald Mash Central Bureau
Two armed robbers, who unleashed a reign of terror in Shamva’s Low Density Village, robbing residents of their cash and valuables, have been sentenced to five years in prison each by a Bindura magistrate. Witness Makuni (34) and Mustafa Sitayela (35) pleaded not guilty to three counts of unlawful entry in aggravated circumstances, but were convicted after a full trial. Provincial magistrate Mr Tinashe Ndokera sentenced Makuni to five years and added six months that were suspended during his previous conviction. Sitayela was sentenced to three years in prison after two years were suspended for five years on condition that he does not commit a similar offence. A Toyota Corolla with registration number ADJ 4949 that they used as a getaway vehicle was forfeited to the State. In passing sentence, Mr Ndokera said although most of the stolen property was recovered, the aggravating fact was that the pair used force and dangerous weapons, traumatising the complainants. Prosecutor Mr Vincent Marunya proved that on January 9, this year at around 1am the pair teamed with their accomplices, who are still at large, to steal from Evelyn Nyatsime’s home. Nyatsime is a teacher at Wadzanai High School. The gang drove to Nyatsime’s house armed with machetes and iron bars and forced open the door and threatened to kill Sharon Nyatsime, who was in the house at the time, with a machete. They demanded cash and valuable before stealing US$170 and $200, a 42 inch television, a laptop, four cell phones, police uniform, and two black satchels. They also stole groceries, a car battery and a drilling machine. They loaded their loot in their getaway vehicle and sped off. Seven days later, the gang went to Gladys Kuwandira house at around 3am. They entered the house through a window and stole a 40 inch television and US$30. Kuwandira woke up and started screaming for help and they threatened her with machetes and drove away. On February 18, this year, the group went to Richard Jimika’s house in the same neighbourhood at around 2am. They forced their way in and stole a 55 inch television, school shoes, bags, textbooks and a scheme book. On February 29 detectives received a tip off, which led to the arrest of Makuni and Sitayela.