The Herald Zimbabwe has implemented the Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) programme in line with international best practice and the Customs and section 216B of the Excise Act (Chapter 23:02). What is an Authorised Economic Operator?
An Authorised Economic Operator is an entity which has been accredited by a Customs Administration and is involved in the international supply chain. An AEO is approved by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority after demonstrating compliance with fiscal legislation. Who is eligible for the AEO programme?
Importers, exporters, clearing agents, carriers, consolidators, intermediaries, ports, airports, terminal operators, integrated operators, warehouse, distributors and manufacturers who meet the standards outlined in the governing legislation are legible for the AEO programme. Why launch the AEO Programme
The AEO Programme was necessitated by the need to facilitate trade, reward compliance and enhance international supply chain security. The programme offers a modern approach through flexible application of Customs and Excise controls. This is done by categorising operators and rewarding compliant/trusted operators. Benefits of AEO status Qualification Criteria
Any person interested in being approved as an AEO shall apply in writing through the nearest ZIMRA office. The applicant shall meet the following conditions in order to be approved as an AEO entity. Obligations of an AEO
The AEO entity is required to Important notes
The application for AEO status shall only cover the legal entity of the applicant and will not automatically apply to a group of companies. Note that the AEO status is not automatically granted to the AEO entity’s clearing agent or transporter as they will be required to apply separately for that status. For maximum benefits to be derived, it would be ideal to have the whole supply chain players, for example the importer/exporter, the clearing agent, the transporter, the transit shed operator/container depot operator and the distributor to obtain the AEO status. My Taxes, My Duties: Building my Zimbabwe!! Disclaimer 
This article was compiled by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority for information purposes only. Zimra shall not accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from use of material in this article and no liability will attach to the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority. To contact ZIMRA:
WhatsApp line : +263 782 729 862Visit our website : www. zimra.co.zw
Follow us on Twitter : @Zimra_11
Like us on Facebook : www.facebook.com/ZIMRA.11
Send us an e-mail : pr@zimra.co.zw/webmaster@zimra.co.zw
Call us (Head Office) : 0242 –758891/5; 790813; 790814; 781345; 751624; 752731 
e-TIP : http://ecustoms.zimra.co.zw/etip/