The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FOR goalkeeper Herbert Rusawo, it was the ultimate dream. The six years he spent between 2012 and 2018, grabbing headlines, finally saw him getting a national team call. And, when he was finally given the nod in 2018 to start in a CHAN qualifier against Namibia, it was a dream come true for the goalkeeper. But, then, things went horribly wrong. His error-laden display was blamed for Zimbabwe’s doomed campaign for the 2018 CHAN finals, the first time the Warriors failed to qualify for the showcase. “I know things didn’t work out well for me in that game. I was jittery and nervous,” Rusawo said. “I remember being the fall guy. I think I compounded my woes when I failed to convert my penalty . . . ” He is still a haunted man. At Rhinos, where he had commanded the first team jersey for over eight years, coach Herbert Maruwa started to lose faith in him. Maruwa signed Ashley Reyners and Rusawo was subsequently loaned out to Chapungu where he was always going to be Talbert Shumba’s understudy for the entire 2019 season. His loan spell at Chapungu ran out on December 31. But, no team, including his parent club Black Rhinos, made any move for him. The army side opted to register Stephen Chimusoro, Tanyaradzwa Huni and Blessing Mwandimutsira in the goalkeeping department. At 31, Rusawo is stranded. But, he has been given an olive branch at newly-promoted side Cranborne Bullets. “I was given a clearance by Chapungu and I hope Cranborne Bullets will accommodate me in their team in the coming season,’’ he said. “At the moment, no team, except Cranborne Bullets, has come forward but it is my hope that I will do well and find a way to the top again. “I am still very much in the game. You know there are spells in the life of a footballer. “During my days at Black Rhinos, I think I went off form and Reyners (Ashley) raised his game. “I deserved to sit on the bench as that helped me improve a lot. Unfortunately, when I thought I would reclaim my place, I had to go to Chapungu where Talbert (Shumba) was on top of his game. “I want to thank all the coaches who have helped me through my career. It is my hope that I will find a new team and prove that I am still very good in goals.”