The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea have agreed a deal with RB Leipzig forward Timo Werner. Reports suggest the 24-year-old, who has scored 25 goals in the German Bundesliga this season, has a release clause of about £54m. The Germany international had been linked with Liverpool and said he was “proud” of that association. But BBC Sport understands Liverpool are not interested in signing Werner, who has  netted 11 times in 29 games for his country. Last month, French striker Olivier Giroud extended his contract by a year. Werner would be Chelsea’s second signing for next season after already completing a £37m deal for Ajax winger Hakim Ziyech in February. He has impressed at Leipzig following his 2016 transfer from hometown club Stuttgart. Werner scored a hat-trick in Leipzig’s recent 5-0 victory over Mainz and he also netted three times against the same opposition in an 8-0 win before Christmas. In January, Chelsea head coach Frank Lampard was linked with Paris St-Germain forward Edinson Cavani and Napoli’s Dries Mertens but neither deal materialised. Lampard has been keen to reshape his attack since becoming Chelsea’s manager last summer and has pushed for the signing of Werner, whose £53m release clause expires on June 15. Although the club still have to conclude negotiations with Leipzig, they have offered the striker a five-year deal. Liverpool had targeted Werner, with Jürgen Klopp telling his board the Germany international would fit in well at Anfield. However, the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has forced the Premier League leaders to reconsider their budget and they are yet to bid for the 24-year-old, allowing Chelsea to take control of the race to sign one of the most prolific strikers in Europe. Chelsea, fourth in the league when it was suspended in March, were under a transfer embargo last summer and have funds available after not making signings in January. Lampard’s attacking options are also set to be improved by the arrival of the Ajax playmaker Hakim Ziyech, who will become a Chelsea player on July 1. Ziyech finalised a £36m move from Ajax in February and the Moroccan will be available next season. Chelsea have also monitored Lyon’s Moussa Dembélé, Bayer Leverkusen’s Kai Havertz, and Borussia Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho, but it is Werner who has caught Lampard’s eye. The German is comfortable through the middle but his ability to work from the left would allow him to combine with Tammy Abraham, Chelsea’s leading goalscorer. Chelsea are also in the market for a left-back, with Lampard a huge admirer of Leicester’s Ben Chilwell. If Chilwell proves too expensive, Chelsea could turn their attention to Ajax’s Nicolás Tagliafico. — BBC Sport.