The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
FOR Zimbabwe’s senior netball team assistant coach, Ropafadzo Mutsauki, reaching the World Cup with the Under-21 side and senior team was a dream fulfilled. Mutsauki led the Under-21 side at their maiden appearance at the World Youth Cup in Botswana in 2017 where they came ninth. And, last year, he was the assistant coach for the senior national team that finished eighth at the Vitality Netball World Cup in England. The likes of Sharon Bwanali and Claris Kwaramba graduated from that Under-21 team and went on to be part of the senior team that won the hearts of many at last year’s World Cup in Liverpool. “As a coach your wish is to coach the national team and I have done that. I have gone to the World Cup twice,’’ Mutsauki said. “I first went to the World Cup with the Under-21s and we were ninth and with the senior team, as assistant coach, we were eighth. “But, right now, my wish is to nurture junior players who will play for the national team in the future. “That’s my goal and my plan, which I am looking forward to fulfill.’’ Reflecting on the strides the sport has made over the years in Zimbabwe, Mutsauki believes there are many possibilities for netball to grow. “My wish is to see Zimbabwe in the top four in the world. If we get there, then we would have made it in netball. “With the level we have reached and, considering we were not known in the netball circles, we had never been to the World Cup, I think we can achieve more. “We can make huge strides as long as we work as a team. “If we unite, and work as a family, we can reach great heights because the talent is there. What is needed is unity in our sport. “Our play has improved a lot. Now, a lot of people in the country follow the sport, even young kids. We are now respecting the sport more than before, it’s another change, the community now respects the sport.’’ Mutsauki, who began his journey in netball, in 1998, paid tribute to his brother Noel for his influence. “I got my first coaching and umpiring certificates in 1998. After getting my first certificate, that’s when I started working with Chifamba, a community club in Mbare. “I started coaching in 1998 up to now. I worked with the Under-20, then Under-21. With the Under-20s I got a gold medal in 2014 (at the African Union Sports Council Region Five Games) in Bulawayo. “What led me to netball, was my brother, the one I come after. He used to coach netball and I played soccer in high school. “But, he invited me to their games when he was still a coach. “At first I was reluctant because I have always been a church person, from a young age, and I thought it would interfere with my programme.’’ Besides working with the national team, he is the Harare City Queens head coach.