The Herald Nadia Mutisi University of Zimbabwe
We were all excited to be opening a new chapter in our lives. We had daydreamed, dreamt and sighed in anticipation and finally, August was here, orientation was upon us! I was heading to the University of Zimbabwe to begin my Law degree. Only months before, I had received my “A” Level results and had started binging on any content I could find about university but still, I was clueless. Orientation Week did give me some insights into what this new world at university would bring. So, here’s a quick guide to what orientation entails! Orientation is actually important, don’t miss it! There are a lot of things that are wrong with the tertiary education system in Zimbabwe, but they never go wrong with orientation! As I reflect on Orientation Week, I realise how the guidance that we were given, the lectures before the lectures were imperative and applicable. Orientation Week really set the tone and foundation for “first year, first semester” as Professor Lovemore Madhuku loves to put it. It’s the week we make sure we are registered for our courses, pay outstanding fees, log onto the university website and receive our student IDs. It is like a student initiation. For students with disabilities, Orientation Week brings insights into centres within the institution that cater especially to their needs and how the institution is prepared to ensure that they have a vibrant campus life. University is different from high school and during Orientation Week, the speeches from the deans really make you understand that. We were made to understand that, “the purpose of education is to replace an empty mind with an open mind”. We also found where we truly belonged as there were presidents and vice-presidents of the respective clubs within the institutions willing to take us in. I joined debate and have never regretted it! You get acquainted with all the people you should know. During Orientation Week, we were introduced to the people in charge — that is lecturers and the deans and the student representatives. These gave us insights into their faculties and line of work. The experience was very informative but due to all the excitement, no first year student really has discipline to listen attentively to all the formalities. In time, you get to know your lecturers and you become acquainted with the who’s who in the student body. University is a whole new world buzzing with fun but we all go there to learn. During Orientation Week, we were given advice pertaining to our academics. We were mentored on what to do when one needs to change a programme, how to cope when one is under-performing and given a number of pointers on how to navigate education at university – for instance, being taught how to log into the school’s portal, for important information. We were also given a run down of the rules and regulations at university. Yes, you heard right! There are rules and regulations at university. This is just to ensure you do not find yourself in front of a disciplinary committee and hinder yourself from pursuing more in your life. Here are the six rules I managed to jot down, Do not fight (No to violence); There should be no sexual harassment, and no one should pretend to have been sexually harassed; There should be no theft; There is zero tolerance for drug use; and There should be no vandalism. When it came to the social scene, all of us were seated up, leaning forward, ready to listen. The Dean of Students really tried to connect with us as young people and occasionally threw jokes in about the dating scene at university. We were, however, warned of predators, popularly known as “blessers”, that lurk around the campus. Coming from a sheltered home, I could not fathom this happening in a learning institution. However, I was soon to be plunged into the real world once campus activities were in full swing. We understood that there is a fair share of harassment in university from lecturers and even from students to lecturers. The general understanding is that there is a lot of freedom at university. For instance, there were conversations around sexual reproductive health and sexually transmitted infections, which are apparently rife at university. We were lucky enough to have experts from Nedbank speak to us on money matters. We were advised to open bank accounts with Nedbank, something I have found absolutely necessary as I have been given opportunities to work while still at university. We learnt a lot and came out with a number of quotes too, “money is a tool, but don’t be a slave to it”. These were important conversations to have. However, all these lectures happened in just one day as we all sat in the Great Hall flustered from the heat. As such not many of us internalised enough to carry these principles into real university life. In recent years, there has been particular focus on mental health, something that Orientation Week focused on. We were introduced to the institution’s psychologist, who we could speak to on several matters. This was especially important as over time during first year I witnessed the need for a psychologist and knowing where to go, my friends and I made use of that service. We were staying above water! In essence, Orientation Week is an interesting experience, one filled with so many lessons, most of which you will forget. However, it creates a wonderful foundation for “first year, first semester”. And that sums up orientation week for me! 