The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
TWO years ago, Dynamos fullback Emmanuel Jalai signed his first professional contract with How Mine after impressing in a month-long trial stint. But, he didn’t kick a ball in the domestic Premiership. With his national Under-20 coach, Bekhitemba Ndlovu in charge of the Bulawayo side, the then 18-year old was sure he was set for flying debut in the top-flight league. But, just weeks before the season started, the team’s franchise was sold to Harare City. “I still remember every detail. We just saw guys from the office coming to the training ground and we were told they had brought some big news,” said Jalai. “The usually jovial atmosphere was somehow tense. Maybe, the senior players knew what was happening but some of us weren’t aware. “Then came the news. It was depressing. I was looking forward to making my Premiership debut and the journey back to Harare was too long.” But, some good news was awaiting the Aces Youth Soccer Academy player as, together with some of his academy teammates — Kelvin Ndebele, Nicholas Guyo and Tinotenda Chiunye — they were seconded to CAPS United and were registered with the PSL. “I understand that I was still young but at times I felt my time had still not come,’’ he said. “I became frustrated and eventually went back to AYSA. “I had to put everything into training and improve my game. “I had some aspects of my game, which I realised still needed to be worked on and I am still working to be a better player.’’ Jalai made a big breakthrough last season, as one of the outstanding Dynamos players, in a season the Glamour Boys performed below their standards. The roving rightback, who made 32 appearances for DeMbare, was widely expected to make it onto the 2019 Soccer Stars of the Year calendar but the selectors overlooked him. The 21-year-old said although he felt he had performed well; he wasn’t disappointed by that development. “After a decent debut season in the top-flight, you know, one feels you will probably get an accolade of some sort but I am one person who knows and acknowledges it when some have done better,’’ he said. “I feel the 11 players selected by the professional panel were the best in 2019. “That actually gave me that zeal to want to do even better than what I did last year. “There are a lot of things that I know I need to work on. I was making some casual mistakes at times due to lack of experience and I regard my first season as a learning curve.” But, Jalai will have to wait a bit longer for his second season in the top-flight. The football season has been indefinitely suspended due to Covid-19. “It is very frustrating but we cannot yearn to see football returning in these circumstances,’’ he said. “We need to actually applaud the authorities for delaying the start of the game. “Covid-19 is real and we ought to be careful. I was looking forward to a fruitful season this year and taking my career to the next level but, look, staying at home is what we have to do at the moment. “The right time will come when the league will be allowed to start.” Jalai says he trains three times a day at home to keep fit.