The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HARARE Basketball Association have remained adamant the 2019-2020 season could be finalised around October, despite the sport being classified as high risk. The season was halted in March, due to Covid-19, with five matches still to be played. And, despite indications the season could be voided, HBA president, David Pick, said it was too early to talk about the cancellation of the season. “It is very unfortunate the season had to be halted in such a manner. Covid-19 is real and that was the best step taken by the authorities,” said Pick. “As we speak, we cannot decide anything, in as far as the season is concerned. ‘’Our sport was classified as high risk, due to its contact nature. So, at the moment, we cannot say anything about resumption. “But, it would be premature to say that the season has been cancelled.” Pick said their season usually gets underway around October and, only then, can be able to talk about what happens to the current term. “How late is too late, I don’t think we can say the 2019-2020 season can be called off just as yet,’’ he said. ‘’We still have close to three months before the period we usually start our season. “Between now, and then, there is bound to be many developments, so we just keep our fingers crossed and hope some workable solutions would have been found by that time. “So, in as far as we are concerned, the season cannot be cancelled just as yet. We will, however, stand guided by the Government and medical experts on the best way forward.” Pick hinted the season could be concluded in a tournament format, with teams expected to play, at least, two matches a day to complete the outstanding fixtures. Harare City Hornets lead the standings in both the men’s and women’s A sections with the men’s side having managed 34 points from 17 games. Their female counterparts have 28 points in 14 games, a point above second-placed Raiders. Galacticos lead the men’s B league, with 29 points from 16 matches, and are tied on points with Cavaliers. But, the latter have an inferior points different. Greenstars Academy, on 21 points from 11 outings, lead the women’s B league with FML, who have played a game more, a point behind the Girls High School outfit.