The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has ruled out a move for Barcelona forward Lionel Messi, but admits the Argentine would be “great” for the Premier League. Messi’s future has been surrounded by speculation since asking to leave Barca but Klopp says there is “no chance” he will join the English champions. Asked if he was interested in signing the 33-year-old, Klopp said: “Who doesn’t want Messi in their team? “The numbers are not for us, but a good player, to be honest.” Messi has been linked with a reunion with former Barca boss Pep Guardiola at Manchester City — something Klopp says will “obviously” help his rivals and make them “harder to beat”. City, who were Liverpool’s closest rivals in the top flight last season and their predecessors as title holders, have remained tight-lipped on the rumours and have ruled out letting first-team regulars, Bernado Silva, Riyad Mahrez and Gabriel Jesus leave in any exchange deal for Argentina international Messi. “For the Premier League, it would be great, but I am not sure the Premier League needs that boost,” added Klopp. “He’s never played in another league. Football is different here. I’d like to see it but I’m not sure I will.” Liverpool continue their pre-season preparations against FA Cup winners Arsenal in the Community Shield on Saturday (16:30 BST), and Klopp says he is “happy” with his squad. However, while remaining coy on the subject, he did not rule out further transfer activity before the Premier League window closes on 5 October. “Numbers in the squad make sense, we have a big squad at the moment with a lot of young boys, and the size of the squad is OK,” he said. “I’m happy with what we have but we look constantly for improvement – internally too. “It will be interesting to see what other teams do but we will deal with our situation as we always have. The philosophy of this club is clear and we will see how much we want to spend.” Meanwhile, fans of the Argentine club gathered on Thursday in the streets of Rosario — Messi’s home town — for a parade to bring their boy back home. Since Messi handed in a transfer request at Barcelona this week, the football world has gone absolutely giddy with speculation. At the moment, Manchester City and Paris St-Germain look like the two front-runners for his signature. But could sentimentality or home sickness have some sway on his eventual decision? Messi has been at Barcelona for almost his whole footballing life, a graduate of their La Masia academy, which he joined aged 13. Before all that though, his journey started out Newell’s Old Boys academy. So, is this really going to happen? It’s probably unlikely, isn’t it? But there is some historical precedent. Jamie Ralph, head of the club’s English-speaking supporters’ club, told PA news that people need to understand that Newell’s have a bit of a track record for pulling off major shock signings. Most famously, they did manage to lure back another famous Argentine export — Diego Maradona. “Maradona was at Sevilla in Spain — he was only 33, so he was the same age as Messi — and he came back and signed for Newell’s, which was unbelievable at the time. This was the year before the ‘94 World Cup,” Ralph explained. Club vice-president Cristian D’Amico told TyC Sports: “Maradona came and everyone believed it was impossible. What Newell’s fan doesn’t have the dream to see the greatest in our shirt?” They also signed World Cup winner David Trezeguet in 2013 and ex-Liverpool man Maxi Rodriguez currently plays for them. Pedigree. There’s a banner at the Estadio Marcelo Bielsa that says “your dream is our dream” and some fans have got Messi’s name on their backs. Ralph did admit that there was, “a bit of romanticism” going on among all of this. He said, “I do think Messi will play for Newell’s one day, but personally think it’s a little bit too soon.” We wouldn’t hold our breath. But it would be a charming story, wouldn’t it? — BBC Sport.