The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FORMER Gems goal keeper, Rudo Karume, says she doesn’t regret leaving the national side soon after the World Cup in Liverpool, England.  Karume is one of the senior players who called time on their international careers, after the Liverpool adventure, to concentrate on their club careers. The ZDF Queens player bounced back from a back injury, sustained when she was involved in an accident in 2016, and doctors recommended she quit netball. But, for Karume, that was not an option as she had a point to prove, which she did. She returned to the court, the following year, with Beta Queens. After the World Cup, she moved from Harare City to ZDF Queens. “Firstly, let me say that just being there, and being part of the team that went to England, is something I will never forget,’’ she said. “Competing in front of a huge crowd, and against the likes of Caitlin Bassett (Australia’s captain), remains part of the memories I have from the World Cup. “When I came back from Liverpool, so many things changed. “I got employed full time at ZDF Queens. I have taken the experience from the World Cup to my club. “It’s unfortunate the league was disrupted this year. We wanted to challenge for the title. “Last year, there were some challenges, since I was not allowed to play some of the matches as they were from first round of the season. “I don’t have any regrets.’’ Karume said a persistent back injury also contributed to her decision. “Some people have questioned my decision but the other reason is I have a back problem. “I was involved in accident in 2016 and doctors recommended that I should stop playing netball. “I remember, during one of the Diamond Challenge tournaments, I could not play because of that injury,” Karume said. She began playing netball at Chinhoyi Primary School and rose through the ranks to make the team at Nemakonde High School. “I was still young then, so I kept on training and working hard. “I also wanted to prove that netball could be played by anyone and change the perception it’s for promiscuous people. “I am currently doing online lessons for umpiring,” Karume said. Karume played for a number of clubs that include Renaissance, Stanbic, Beta Queens and Harare City before she settled for ZDF.