The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea have signed England left-back Ben Chilwell from Leicester on a five-year deal for an undisclosed fee. Chilwell is Chelsea’s third addition of the summer after the arrivals of winger Hakim Ziyech, 27, from Ajax and striker Timo Werner, 24, from RB Leipzig. The defender, 23, is a Leicester academy product who made his debut for the club in 2015, and had a contract with the Foxes until 2024. He missed the final five matches of the 2019-20 season with a foot injury. Chelsea took fourth place and a Champions League place at the expense of Leicester on the final day of the Premier League season in July. “I’m looking forward to being a part of this young, dynamic squad led by Frank Lampard as we challenge for honours next season,” said Chilwell, who has 11 England caps. “He [Lampard] does play the younger players if they are good enough and just from speaking to him, I’m really excited to be here. I think the way the gaffer sets his teams up suits my game perfectly.” Chilwell made a total of 123 appearances for Leicester and scored four goals, three of them coming in the Premier League last season. Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia added: “We are confident Ben will adapt very quickly to being a Chelsea player and with the fixture programme for 2020-21 especially busy, he is a fantastic addition to the squad needed to challenge for honours.” Meanwhile, Manchester United goalkeeper, Dean Henderson, has signed a new contract with the club until June 2025. The 23-year-old spent the past two seasons on loan at Sheffield United. On Tuesday Henderson was named in the England squad for September’s Nations League games. He said: “The faith the manager and the club have shown in me with this contract means a lot to me and will continue my progression as a goalkeeper.” He made 86 appearances for the Blades after joining them in 2018, helping them to promotion to the Premier League in his first year. Last season they finished ninth in the top flight with Henderson impressing as first-choice keeper. Henderson, who has the option to extend his contract by another year, has been with Manchester United since the age of 14 and received his first England call-up in October 2019. United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said “We are delighted Dean has signed his new contract. He had another great season at Sheffield United, where he gained a lot of experience and grew both as a player and a person. “We are in a strong position within the goalkeeping department and that gives us the competition for places that we are looking for in the squad.” — BBC Sport.