The Herald Arts Reporter Sungura musician Panganayi Hare has roped in gospel singer Agatha Murudzwa on his latest single titled “Uri Wangu” that was recorded over the weekend. The fast-rising sungura star, who is popularly known as Mukoma Panga, said he always cherished Agatha’s vocal prowess and hopes the collaboration will go beyond the mark he has made with his previous releases. On his previous album “Panganayi”, Mukoma Panga worked with another female vocalist on the title track and then collaborated with Madam Boss for its video. The touch of female vocalists gives his songs a different feel from other sungura songs while his slow tempo makes the music compatible with many occasions. Agatha said she was happy to cross from the gospel bracket to lend her voice to a sungura singer as a way of showing her versatility. She said the difference between gospel and other genres is the message. She said the gospel message can be carried on any beat, making sungura a familiar territory for her. Mukoma Panga said the diva’s voice has blended well with his beat and vocals, and the song exhibits a different style. It is a love song that advises people in new relationships to completely move on from their past affairs and focus on the future. “Working with Agatha in the studio was easy because she is experienced. She has been in the industry for many years and she proved that she can adapt to any style of music,” said Mukoma Panga. “Her voice is great and she did very well. The instrumentalists also came up with polished beat and I am glad all went according to plan. We enjoyed doing the song.” Agatha said she learnt a lot during the studio sessions. “Although he has been a recording artiste for a couple of years, Mukoma Panga exhibited that his experience in music is vast. I think his experience as a promoter exposed him to music in a great way. Getting in the studio is just the icing on the cake. It is not surprising that he managed to make hits with his debut album. He is definitely destined for greater heights,” said Agatha. The song was recorded by Jabulani Ndlovu and mastered by Bothwell Nyamhondera.