The Herald Zimpost remains the centre of activity in every locality in urban and rural Zimbabwe, offering universal access to a wide range of products and services. Zimpost operates more than 239 postal outlets nationwide, giving it an unparalleled reach. With the continued advancements in technology, Zimpost has had to adapt, ensuring that the Post Office remains key in the communications industry. Globally, volumes of parcels and small packets have grown by 6,5 percent per year and this growth has resulted in e-commerce growth in most parts of the world particularly in Europe and in Asia Pacific. With the growing e-commerce market, Zimpost has positioned itself to offer online services by developing the Mail Order into an E-Commerce platform branded the Zimpost Online Mall which is hosted on the Online Platform and sitting on the address; www.zimpostmall.post. The dot.post Top Level Domain Name is one of the safest platforms in the world for Online Shopping at the moment. This platform also enables businesses, other E-shops and MSMEs to showcase their wares to the world with Zimpost guaranteeing a seamless last mile delivery service. The Zimpost E-Commerce services include; Parcel delivery — National, regional or international delivery services for web stores, emails and e-market places. E-commerce payment — Zimpost also provides electronic or physical payment services for e-shops. Escrow services — Zimpost also acts as a trusted third party for payment and delivery of goods bought on the internet. E-marketplace (online shop) — Zimpost also acts as intermediary for e-commerce transactions through the agency arrangement. Logistics Provider — Zimpost manages all or part of the seller’s logistics chain, for example the warehouse, inventory, order processing, fulfilment, and delivery and after sales. Zimbabwe should now, more than ever depend on the Zimpost Delivery Services especially in the work of Covid-19 pandemic. The company offers unmatched delivery of parcels, food and medical supplies, as an essential service in this environment. Zimpost is also providing last mile delivery of goods bought from manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers. Currently, Zimpost is the preferred delivery partner for goods bought online from retail giants such as OK Mart and Gain Cash & Carry and other grocery shops and pharmaceutical stores. 