The Herald LONDON. — Barcelona are adamant they will not negotiate to allow Lionel Messi to leave the Spanish football club before his contract ends next year. The 33-year-old Argentine has requested a personal meeting with the Barcelona hierarchy to discuss a solution to the impasse over his transfer request, Sky Sports News can confirm. Messi failed to report for coronavirus testing at Barcelona’s training complex yesterday as he continues his battle to leave the club. Messi’s decision not to attend means he will be unable to participate in Ronald Koeman’s first training session as Barcelona’s new manager this afternoon. It is understood that the 33-year-old warned the club in advance via Burofax that he was not going to be present. Messi asked to activate a release clause that would end his contract — which currently runs until next June — and allow him to leave for free this summer, but the club have said the clause has already expired. However, Messi’s lawyers are arguing that — in the spirit of the deal and good faith — the clause is still active after the rescheduled Champions League final on August 23, which was delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. But Manchester City are understood to be closing in on a deal for Barcelona superstar Messi — but the Spanish giants are holding out for a huge £250 million compromise. Manchester City reportedly already have an agreement on personal terms with Messi, following his decision to tell Barcelona he wants to leave this summer. The Argentine sent shockwaves around the world on Tuesday, when he informed Barca that he wanted out immediately. And after much speculation about where he may be heading, it looks as though he is set to reunite with Pep Guardiola. Barcelona are desperately trying to broker a £250 million compromise with Manchester City over Messi. With City’s lawyers now examining the clause in Messi’s contract that gives them hope they can sign the Argentine for free, beleaguered Barca bosses hope that the Blues will agree to a players-plus-cash deal rather than take a £630 million gamble in court.
Mirror Sport understands that both clubs believe Messi is bound for the Etihad. And that the only detail that remains is whether Messi signs for City with Barcelona’s blessing — or the terms of the most controversial transfer in football history are decided by either FIFA or the Court of Arbitration for Sport. Messi has told the Catalan giants that he is leaving the Nou Camp — and he wants to link up again with Guardiola at the Etihad. After a decade of trying to lure the 33-year-old to Manchester, the Blues believe they have finally got their man. New Barca boss Ronald Koeman has told friends in Holland he is already planning for life without the world’s No 1 player. Koeman’s hopes of brokering a deal that would see Gabriel Jesus and Bernardo Silva move to the Nou Camp as makeweights has already been knocked back by City. There are players who Guardiola would be prepared to sacrifice — including John Stones, Nicolas Otamendi, Benjamin Mendy, Joao Cancelo, Oleksandr Zinchenko and Angelino. It is yet to be seen whether any of those names would be acceptable to Koeman — although Barcelona do want young City defender Eric Garcia following his decision to reject a new contract. Barcelona are hoping to also bank at least £120 million in cash to enable Koeman to begin his rebuild. Guardiola and Koeman are former Barca team-mates and remain close friends. The pair regularly met for dinner when the Dutchman was in charge of Everton. Guardiola has been spending a few days in Barcelona ahead of returning to oversee pre-season training. — The Mirror.