The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Organisers of the second edition of “Worship Experience” have announced the date for the show that will feature local and regional gospel greats. The show, which is being hosted by Kayse Connect, will be held on January 1 with comedian Prosper Ngomashi, affectionately known as Comic Pastor, and radio personality Yvonne Karichero pencilled in as the hosts. It will see South African songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and pastor Benjamin Dube sharing the stage with interdenominational choir ZimPraise, Takesure Zamar, Tembalami, Matthias Mhere and songstress Janet Manyowa among others. In an interview, show organiser Elton Kurima said he was happy to share to news on social media as the fans had been waiting for the announcement. “I know there have been speculation about the second edition with some saying it is going to be held soon (September) because of the coronavirus pandemic and will be held virtually. It is actually not true though, our event will be held on New Year’s Day and I can also confirm that South African award-winning minister, singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and music producer Benjamin Dube is set to perform in Zimbabwe. “Dube has been here before and his fans have been asking for him to return, and we decided to fulfil their wishes. “He will share the centre stage with Janet Manyowa, Zimpraise choir and Takesure Zamar,” he said. He said the show will be held under the theme, ‘Worship Experience with Benjamin Dube’ as a dedication to the artiste in a bid to raise funds for the boys who are suffering from Duchene Muscular Dystrophy (DMD). Kurima said the preparations were at an advanced stage and what was left was the venue. “We are yet to decide on the venue as the previous one at the Rainbow Towers somehow became small. The show will be held in the afternoon and according to our contracts all the musicians will have their full band and so far some of the people on the list have started preparing their playlist which will also include new songs,” he said. Meanwhile, award-winning musician Janet Manyowa said was happy to be on the line-up and promised her fans that will be dropping a single before the end of the year. “Yes, we are performing and we looking forward to it. We were derailed by the global pandemic. The plan was to release the album this year, but for now we are dropping at the end of this month,” said Munya Manyowa, the singer’s manager. The first edition of the Worship Experience concert was held at the Rainbow Towers in January and saw Baba naMai Charamba, Janet Manyowa, Nyasha Mutonhori, Minister Mahendere, Jonah Chivasa and Praise Chakauya among others performing.