The Herald Did you know that any person who wishes to import or export ozone depleting substances (ODS) and greenhouse gases dependent equipment (GHG) is required to apply to Ozone Office for a licence? This is provided for in terms of statutory instrument 131 of 2016. What are ODS and GHG? ODS – products or equipment consisting of ozone depleting substances, including equipment whose continuous functioning relies on the use of ozone depleting substances. Ozone depleting substance – any chemical substance which destroys the ozone layer. GHG -products or equipment consisting of greenhouse gases, including equipment whose continuous functioning relies on the use of greenhouse gases. Greenhouse gas – any chemical which contributes to global warming. Examples of ODS and GHG dependent equipment as listed in the fifth schedule of SI 131 of 2016 Motor vehicle and truck air-conditioning units, whether incorporated in vehicles or not. Domestic and commercial refrigeration and air conditioning/heat pump equipment such as: Refrigerators Freezers and ice machines. Water coolers and gas liquefying units. Air conditioning and heat pump units. Portable fire extinguishers. Household or laundry type washing machines Dry cleaning machines. Who is supposed to apply for the import or export licence? All private and public industrial and commercial importers, exporters, producers and consumers of ozone depleting substances and greenhouse gases and ozone depleting substance and greenhouse gas dependent equipment. The application is done prior to importation or exportation of the ODS and GHG. The license shall be valid for period of one year and not to be transferable to another person. The application is directed to who? An application for a license to import or export ODS and GHG is directed to the Ozone Office, which is the National Ozone Office established by the Ministry responsible for Environment, Water and Climate; National Ozone Unit Climate Change Management Department: Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate & Rural Resettlement 11th Floor Kaguvi Building Corner SV Muzenda Street/Central Avenue Causeway HARARE NB: This import and export licence is NOT REQUIRED on all non-commercial importations and exportations. Covid-19 is real. Always remember to sanitise, wash your hands with water and soap. Stay safe. My Taxes, My Duties: Building my Zimbabwe!! Disclaimer: This article was compiled by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority for information purposes only. ZIMRA shall not accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from use of material in this article and no liability will attach to the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority. To contact ZIMRA:  WhatsApp line: +263 782 729 862 Visit our website:  www. zimra.co.zw Follow us on Twitter:  @Zimra_11 Like us on Facebook:   www.facebook.com/ZIMRA.ZW Send us an e-mail  :  pr@zimra.co.zw/webmaster@zimra.co.zw Call us (Head Office) :   0242 –758891/5; 790813; 790814; 781345; 751624; 752731 e-TIP: http://ecustoms.zimra.co.zw/etip