The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
TRIATHLON coach, Pamela Fulton, believes promising triathlete, Andie Kuipers, stand a good chance of getting the exposure she needs to get to the next level after she got a scholarship at Lenoir-Rhyne University in the United States. She will be part of the university’s triathlon team. Kuipers has represented the country at various competitions, including the African Games in Morocco, and the ITU World Triathlon Grand Final in Lausanne, Switzerland, last year. She has been on the rise and, at the African Games, she got a bronze medal in the individual event. She was part of the mixed relay team that finished fifth at the same competition. Fulton has worked with Kuipers, over the years, and she expressed her excitement over the positive development. “A coach not only wants to develop and prepare their athletes physically but also teach them life skills, so they can venture out and fend for themselves,’’ said Fulton. “Andie has become an independent, mature young lady and is definitely ready for the adventure that awaits her. “She is meticulous, in all her preparations, and has researched American universities and opted for Lenoir Rhyne, which offers the courses she wants to study. “When the time arrives, she may travel to races to gain crucial Olympic points to improve her ranking and she believes she will connect well with her future coach.” Fulton, who led the triathlon team to the African Games before proceeding to Switzerland with Kuipers for the world event, said the move was an important one. “This progression is crucial for Andie’s development, as an athlete, as she will be training and racing with athletes of a high calibre, exposing her to more open water style races with large number of competitors which, will, hopefully help her progress to the next level. “My advice to Andie was to keep the passion alive, embrace and learn from every moment that lies ahead, remain dedicated, retain her work ethic but, most importantly, have fun,” Fulton said. Kuipers is one of the hopefuls for the 2024 Olympic Games. Posting on their Facebook Page, Triathlon Zimbabwe congratulated Kuipers and said they were hopeful she will represent the country at the elite level in the future. “Whilst we are really sorry to see you leave Zimbabwe, we know that this opportunity is one that cannot be missed and are confident that you will thrive and do your very best. “It is very sad that we do not have the same facilities here at home that could offer aspiring athletes like yourself to train and race at elite level. “We have watched you develop from a little 11-year-old participating in a fun school event to the determined and dedicated young woman that you have become today. “We are very proud of everything you have achieved this far and will support you in all that you aim for in the future. “This is definitely not goodbye — we will follow your progress and hope that you will be back home soon racing as an elite under the Zimbabwe flag,” read part of the message.