The Herald Grace Chingoma
Senior Sports Reporter
THE Footballers Union of Zimbabwe have urged the football stakeholders to convene an urgent meeting to deliberate on a host of issues, including how the game should return safely in the wake of the devastating coronavirus pandemic. FUZ’s call comes in the background of the increasing chorus that the authorities should find a way out after football was named among the high risk sports during the Covid-19 outbreak. Although the ZIFA and PSL Sports Medicine Committee have been leading the conversations, FUZ believes every stakeholder also has a part to play. FUZ president Desmond Maringwa said they will engage the PSL on the return to play protocol, a meeting which he believes should come up with one goal. Already FUZ has been giving guidance guided by FIFA Covid-19 regulations to the top-flight pertaining to player contracts considering that some agreements expired in June. Many clubs are facing serious economic challenges and some that are owned or sponsored by companies have been forced to either scale down or stop operations, resulting in reduced revenue. Clubs that also depend on gate-takings, to augment their income, also have been hit hard while players have borne most of the brunt during period of non-activity. “We need to meet and discuss the way forward regarding the return to football protocol. This requires other stakeholders and not only FUZ and PSL. “We have to meet as soon as possible to discuss these issues,” Maringwa said. Maringwa said there is need to look at case studies of how other leagues such as South Africa and Tanzania have resumed football. Tanzania recently concluded their 2019/2020 campaign and are looking to start a fresh season next Sunday.
South Africa have also been playing games in a secure “bio-bubble” environment which has helped the league to fulfil their television and other contractual obligations. “Every scenario and country is different but I believe we can learn something from other leagues that are playing football,” Maringwa said. The PSL chief executive Kenny Ndebele has already indicated that they are seeking input from FUZ who have in turn said an indaba is key to address a wide range of issues regarding football and players during the pandemic. “We are supposed to meet the PSL and discuss at length how to deal with the player contracts situation. We will deliberate and have a win-win situation. When contracts have expired we need to put action to all things being said,” Maringwa said. The former Dynamos midfielder said there is need to address some of the issues such as player contracts early. “It would be difficult to engage once some of these contracts have expired. “We don’t want a scenario where we have many litigations, football becomes difficult that way,” he said. However, Maringwa notes that it’s not cast in stone and clubs should engage players on a mutual basis. “This is why we have been encouraging clubs to pay their players during this lockdown.”