The Herald LISBON. — Neymar broke down in tears as his Champions League football dreams went up in smoke thanks to Kingsley Coman’s winner for Bayern Munich on Sunday night. The Brazilian attacker came into the game full of confidence and seemingly relaxed as he joked about prior to kick-off. But Neymar put in a muted performance on the biggest stage of all, failing to inspire his Paris St-Germain team-mates to victory in Lisbon. He did produce a shot on target after a well-worked move in the first half that was well saved by Manuel Neuer in the German champions’ goal. But there was little else for the Samba star to be proud despite being fouled six times. The former Barcelona star’s petulant side reared its ugly head when he was booked with 10 minutes to go. With time running out PSG grew more desperate and Neymar was ultimately left sobbing into his shirt after the final whistle sounded. Neymar won the Champions League trophy with Barcelona as part of the Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez “MSN” attack. Meanwhile, Serge Gnabry has hailed the “spirit” of Bayern Munich after they beat PSG to win a sixth Champions League title. Germany winger Gnabry started for the Bundesliga side as Coman’s powerful header proved to be the difference in Lisbon. And the ex-Arsenal man lauded the goal scorer and the overall team ethos for carrying them over the line in what proved to be a cagey affair. “Winning the trophy today is the best thing that could happen to us,” he said. “We worked incredibly hard and in the end it came through to be the best team in Europe. “It’s the final, Paris came out wanting to win and so did we. Nobody is going to give up easily but we came through. “As long as it was 0-0, it was always going to be open for us. Of course, they were going to have chances. It was lucky they didn’t score and lucky we did score.” “He (Coman) helped us extremely. He came in and one-against-one we knew it would be difficult for the opponent. “For him to score that goal after being out injured for a couple of games and to come back into the team was incredible. “It has always been said that the spirit of this team is crazy. We always fight for each other and we have a strong bond. Hopefully we can build on that and win more.” Victory at the Estádio da Luz meant Bayern won every game they played in the Champions League this season. — AFP.