The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
THROUGHOUT her career in sports administration, she has been a woman of firsts. Now a board member at ambitious top-flight side, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Busi Chindove has distinguished herself among the country’s best administrators.  “I have made a lot of friends and met some really good people, in both urban and rural spaces, who are passionate about and committed to sports development, even with very limited resources,’’ she said. “Exposure to sport, at all levels, from grass roots to elite sports is also something for which I am most grateful and from which I have benefited tremendously. “The downside, maybe, is about failing to manage the expectation gap between the effort and achievement of athletes and that of spectators.’’ The veteran administrator, who is head of corporate affairs at Zimplats, remains active in sport, despite relinquishing her post as Zimbabwe Olympic Committee vice-president. “I have not fully disengaged from ZOC. But, in 2017, I chose not to participate in the elections that year because the company I work for was embarking on a sports development programme, internally and at community level,’’ she said. “It was important for me to concentrate on participating in the rollout of that programme. “We now have excellent sports facilities, including a beautiful soccer and netball stadium, with additional facilities that include a gym. “Besides soccer, the programme also includes netball and athletics. “I am happy to say I am still involved in sport administration. I sit on the board of Ngezi Platinum Stars Football Club and hold the position of vice-president marketing and communication. “I am also an honorary life member of ZOC, so I continue to contribute to sport in that way. “At a personal level, I continue to have an avid interest in sport and follow sport at a local, continental and international level. “I also play golf in my spare time and that’s something I really enjoy.’’ Chindove made history in 2007 when she became one of the two-ZOC vice presidents. She was the first female to be elected to that position. It seem success always followed her, in 2010 she was the chef de mission for Team Zimbabwe at the inaugural Youth Olympic Games in Singapore. She led Team Zimbabwe at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London, in the same capacity. Chindove was the first woman to be appointed Team Zimbabwe chef de mission for the Olympic Games. “I have a high respect for our sportsmen, and women, and the way in which they put everything into competing for their country, it’s not easy,’’ she said. “Through these experiences, I was also able to meet and talk to some of the world’s greatest sportsmen and women.’’ Her involvement in sport goes back to the 1990s when she was involved in the running of the Castle Cup. She was also part of the team that successfully organised the Davis Cup tennis competition locally. Chindove was also involved in schools sports as she led the team that ran the National High Schools cross-country competition. Being a wife, mother and a professional, Chindove admits it has not been easy. “Nobody is perfect, certainly I am not. So, yes, there are things I could have done better,’’ she said. “Time was often a constraint because I have a full-time job outside sport administration. “The tendency was to focus on competition on the track or field but I strongly believe that it’s important to take a holistic view. “We have to include, for instance, matters of nutrition, matters of the psychological state, or conditioning of athletes, to be able to cope with the various demands and expectations that they (athletes) are confronted with. “Issues of setting realistic, and dynamic goals for themselves, and preparing them, stage by stage, to each of those goals.’’ Her advice to fellow administrators is to focus on professionalism. She says issues of corporate governance need to be taken seriously.