The Herald LONDON. — Harry Maguire’s conviction for charges of assault and attempted bribery following a brawl in Mykonos has been nullified with an appeal accepted for a full retrial. The prosecution alleged on Tuesday, in a Greek court, Maguire pushed a police officer at the scene of the incident and attempted to resist arrest before arriving at the police department where the Manchester United captain attempted to bribe officials. But the club have now confirmed the player’s appeal has been successfully lodged, with Greek law “extinguishing the initial court verdict”. A United statement read: “An appeal against yesterday’s verdict was lodged this morning by Harry’s legal team. In accordance with the Greek judicial process, the filing of an appeal extinguishes the initial court verdict and nullifies the conviction. “The appeal has been accepted and will lead to a full retrial in a more senior court. This means that Harry has no criminal record and is once again presumed innocent until proven guilty. “Accordingly, he is not subject to any international travel restrictions.” Maguire himself insists he will “remain strong and confident” despite the setback on Tuesday. In a statement released following the verdict, Maguire said: “Following the hearing today, I have instructed my legal team with immediate effect to inform the courts we will be appealing. “I remain strong and confident regarding our innocence in this matter — if anything myself, family and friends are the victims.” United begin their Premier League season on 19 September against Crystal Palace. Maguire was not present at the trial on Tuesday on the nearby island of Syros, when he was also found guilty of swearing in public. He was later removed from the England team by manager Gareth Southgate. Two other defendants — including Maguire’s brother, Joe — were also found guilty on similar charges and handed 13-month sentences. The sentences for all three defendants were suspended for three years. Maguire posted on Instagram after being removed from the England squad over the assault conviction, sharing a quote attributed to Buddha, which said: “Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon and the truth.” Speaking after the verdict, Yoannis Paradissis, the lawyer who assisted the prosecution, told Sky News the victims were still waiting for an apology and were “appalled” at Maguire trying to blame police officers. The footballer pleaded not guilty to all three charges and spent two nights in custody after he was arrested. Maguire has made 26 appearances for England. The three Lions are due to play Iceland on 5 September and Denmark three days later in the UEFA Nations League. — The Independent.