The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
YOUTH, Sport, Art and Recreation Deputy Minister, Tino Machakaire, says he remains positive as he begins his recovery from Covid-19 at home. Machakaire tested positive on Wednesday and, as soon as his premises were disinfected, he broke the news on social media. “I am writing to inform you that I have tested positive for Covid-19,” he said. “I am appealing to all those who I have had physical contact with recently to get tested. “The sooner one knows their status the better as that will minimise the number of those one will infect.” Speaking from his farm, where he is quarantined, Machakaire said he is religiously following the medical recommendations from the authorities. “I have no reason to panic. I know this is a deadly scourge but I have decided to remain very positive,’’ he said. “I am following the recommendations from the medical experts and also using all those traditional methods which I should say have helped me a lot in the past few days. “Thank you Zimbabwe for your support at a time like this. My phone has been ringing non-stop with colleagues from the Government, family and friends all reassuring me. “I know, God heals and, soon, this all shall be over.” Machakaire said it was high time people take this pandemic seriously. “We have seen people disregarding safety measures prescribed by health authorities,” he said. “This ailment is real and we should try by all means to guard ourselves against it. “People should adhere to all safety regulations, including social distancing, correctly wearing standard face masks, using sanitisers and eating hot food. “It’s tricky but that’s what can save us from contracting this disease.” Machakaire, who is also the legislator for Wedza South Constituency, said all those who have tested positive for the virus should be selfless and avoid coming into contact with their friends and relatives. Most people are being infected by people who would have tested positive but fail to respect the quarantine regulations. Since the beginning of the Covid-19-induced lockdown, Machakaire has been one of the most hardworking public officials with his efforts seeing significant progress in the refurbishment of the National Sports Stadium. The giant facility was banned from hosting international matches by CAF, in March, because of several defects. Machakaire, together with his immediate boss, Sports Minister, Kirsty Coventry, have been working round the clock to ensure there is progress in the renovations. A media tribunal, medical room and disability centres have all been added to the structures at the giant stadium. The Covid-19 pandemic has also forced the cancellation of the Tinmac Foundation Wedza sports festival bankrolled by Machakaire. The sporting festival features football, both men and women, netball, cycling, athletics, gymnastics, volleyball as well as other traditional sports like nhodo, hwishu, bottle run, needle run, raka raka and mafurawu. The annual tournament was inaugurated last year and is scheduled to run for the next 10 years.