The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Philanthropist, entrepreneur and motivational writer Banabasi Marambire  has successfully launched his first book titled “The Herdboy”, which is based on his life story to inspire others to have faith in life regardless of their poor backgrounds. The book launch was held at a Harare hotel, with only a few people in attendance due to Covid-19 restrictions. Trevor Dongo, Feli Nandi, King Shaddy, Jason and Boi-Austin performed at the launch. Award-winning actress Jesesi Mungoshi also graced the colourful event. In an interview with The Herald Arts soon after the launch, Marambire said publishing the book was a dream come true and hoped it will go a long way in giving hope to young people. “The book is an inspirational and emotional business book which is based on a true story of a young man who grew up as an orphan and started working as a herd-boy, then later worked as a farm worker,” he said. “It is based on my personal experience, and the book has principles that an entrepreneur needs to know and learn from. People need to know that for you to be successful you need to work hard.” Marambire said he chose writing because he wanted to let people know that it was possible to chase dreams. “I wrote the book to motivate others through my experience as I grew up as an orphan, up to starting my own company that has grown to be a good standing company in Zimbabwe, which has more than 200 employees,” he said. “So, the book really tells everyone who might be doubting that it is possible. It came up after many people queried about my upbringing. I grew up in a village called Matizenyika in Chivi district in Masvingo province.” Marambire said the book will be in some local bookstores and will be available on online sites, including Amazon. “The book is going to be adapted into a play,” he said. “I am still in talks with some local production company. So, far it will be sold on Amazon and it is already up. My dream is for the book to reach the world over and I can’t even wait too for the radio to adapt it into a play.” Marambire said his journey of writing had just started. “Writing is my passion,” he said. “I never thought that one day I will write books, but after realising the impact that is in writing and documenting of events, I strongly feel that I will write more books. I will only write about entrepreneurship so as to give guide to my fellow friends on how to start up business.” Marambire said he was setting up and working with a team to ensure the book can be read on his social media pages, as part of giving fans something to occupy them during the lockdown. He said he was inspired by business mogul Mr Strive Masiyiwa. “I am inspired by hard-working people who identify problems and solve them using the business approach. Masiyiwa is my role model and I respect and love the way he does his business. Mostly, I like the way he interacts with people, especially on social media platforms.” Marambire is married to Locadia and they are blessed with three boys. He is the founder of Barmlo Group of Companies which specialises in supplying building materials and brick moulding.