The Herald KIGALI. — Rwanda President Paul Kagame has celebrated Arsenal’s latest achievement to win another trophy in England. The Gunners won their second trophy in August as the FA Cup winners beat English Premier League football champions Liverpool 5-4 on penalties after a 1-1 draw in the Community Shield on Saturday. Just 28 days after Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang struck twice to sink Chelsea 2-1 at Wembley, the Gunners triumphed in the new season’s curtain-raiser in London. Mikel Arteta’s side were forced to do it the hard way, with Takumi Minamino’s first Liverpool goal having cancelled out Aubameyang’s 12th-minute opener. However, Rhian Brewster — who has enjoyed a fine pre-season for Liverpool — missed his spot-kick, setting the stage for Aubameyang to wrap up another Wembley triumph for the Gunners. The latest win has left the President of the East African nation celebrating yet another success for his beloved club. “Very Happy for Arsenal,” Kagame wrote on his Twitter handle. “Building slowly but steadily back to greatness! Congratulations.” When Arsenal won the FA Cup, Kagame challenged the team to aim for “bigger things.” “Bravo, congrats Arsenal for a well-deserved and needed FA Cup win,” Kagame tweeted then. “We, fans and supporters kept faith in you . . .going forward let’s aim at much bigger things and yes we can.” Both sides will lose players for the upcoming international break, before they kick off their respective Premier League campaigns on September 12. Arsenal will face Fulham, while Liverpool host Leeds United. Rwanda and Arsenal have a good relationship since the country moved to sponsor the Premier League giants, whose players display a ‘Visit Rwanda’ logo on their sleeves. The three-year deal which became Arsenal’s first-ever sleeve sponsorship was signed on May 23, 2018, with the Rwanda Development Board, through their subsidiary, the Rwandan Convention Bureau, aiming for the country to become a leading global tourist destination. — Goal.com