The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Women’s Sevens rugby coach, Kwayedza Derek Chiwara, says he is excited on his new adventure after being accepted for an international coaching programme. Chiwara has been accepted by the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee and the University of Delaware for the international coaching enrichment certificate programme. He submitted his application a few months ago and got confirmation last Saturday. The one-year programme targets national team coaches from sport codes that compete at the Olympics. The course aims to equip coaches with skills in sports sciences, talent identification, athletes development, coaching education, coaching management, grassroots sport development and ethical aspects of coaching at all levels. “It was a very long wait, painful wait, full of anxiety and all,’’ said Chiwara. “So, obviously, the good thing is I eventually got a confirmation letter telling me I had qualified for the programme. “And, I am excited about it. “Most of the courses are done in the United States, and then the final stage, which is the final module, is a presentation that is done in Switzerland. “What will happen is, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, they have had to play around with the dates, they have had to shift and change. “Some of the modules are now going to be done virtually, for a start. Then, in February, I will leave for the United States to do practical stuff there.’’ He noted this will also benefit other sport codes, besides rugby, on how they can prepare athletes to compete at the highest level. Posting on the Facebook page, the Zimbabwe Rugby Union expressed gratitude to the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee for facilitating the application. “We are, forever, grateful to Zimbabwe Olympic Committee, the Zimbabwe Rugby Union board for facilitating the application, and secondment, of Derek for this programme.” Meanwhile, Sables player, Royal Roger Mwale, has secured a four-year deal with top Polish side Budowlani Lubin Rugby Club. Mwale, who made his debut for the national side in 2012, was part of the team that won the Victoria Cup last year. He featured for Old Hararians before moving to South Africa. He has also been to Spain, Portugal and Kenya.