The Herald THE Global Esports Federation marked a breakthrough milestone at the 2020 Global Esports Summit in Hainan, China, yesterday, with the launch of the #worldconnected initiative in partnership with Tencent Esports. This initiative serves as the global platform to facilitate greater dialogue within the esports community, bridging the connection between esports, virtual and traditional sports, and is supported by leading global publishers – Tencent, Riot Games, Supercell, Smilegate and EA. Veteran Zimbabwean sports administrator, Tommy Sithole, is now the GEF vice president, and still responsible for governance and ethics commission. Another Zimbabwean, Tyrone Seward, is also a member of the executive committee. Representatives from the GEF, Tencent, and participating publishers were present at the 2020 Global Esports Summit to demonstrate their support for the #worldconnected Initiative. This initiative will further strengthen the GEF’s convening efforts of various esports stakeholders with GEF’s Member Federations – assembling the athletes, players, the world’s publishers, developers, industry partners and sporting organisations – together on one inclusive platform. “Today, I am proud to announce the launch of the #worldconnected Initiative, in partnership with Tencent Esports,’’ said Chris Chan, the GEF president, during his address to the audience in Singapore. We invite the world’s esports community – the world’s publishers, developers, athletes and players, as well as the broader international sporting community – to come together and play a part in shaping the future of esports. “We stand eager and ready to collaborate with the world’s esports and sporting communities. I invite you to join the conversation – where esports and sport shine bright on the world stage – and together harness the might and power of technology and innovation for good and a truly world connected.” Since inception in December 2019, the GEF have achieved unprecedented progress despite these challenging times, including several landmark partnerships – with the Commonwealth Games Federation, the Olympic Council of Asia with its 45 National Olympic Committees, the Olympic Committees of South America (ODESUR); the oldest organization of the United Nation’s system. The GEF have also partnered the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) as well as strategic partnerships with Tokyo-based Dentsu Inc., Singapore-based Refract Technologies and Madrid-based Global Sports Innovation Center powered by Microsoft. The GEF have also confirmed more than 60 Member Federations and six International Federations to date. “The Global Esports Federation values and acknowledges the importance of publishers to the organisation,’’ said Paul J Foster, the GEF chief operating officer. ‘’Today marks a breakthrough achievement for the GEF following extensive dialogue sessions where we listened and learned from the publishers and the community which they serve. ‘’We proudly welcome the support from Tencent, Riot Games, Supercell, Smilegate and EA for the newly launched #worldconnected Initiative. “We are confident that through this initiative, we are able to strengthen the dialogue and engagement between key stakeholders in the esports community on our quest to promote the credibility, legitimacy, and prestige of esports.” The #worldconnected Initiative provides access to foster greater interface among relevant stakeholders to jointly develop avenues to advance the opportunities for esports. — GEF/Sports Reporter.