The Herald LONDON. — Juventus could cash in on Cristiano Ronaldo this summer as they no longer consider him ‘non-transferable’, according to reports in Spain. Ronaldo (35) enjoyed another sensational goalscoring season, with his tally of 37 goals in all competitions the most by any Juve player in a single season. Yet the Portugal superstar’s goals were not enough to inspire Juve to Champions League glory, instead crashing out against Lyon in a shock last-16 defeat. The Italian champions did romp home to another Serie A triumph, but Maurizio Sarri was still sacked the day after their European failure and replaced by club legend Andrea Pirlo. And according to Sport , Juve could also show Ronaldo the door this summer if any potential suitors meet their £54 million asking price. The Spanish outlet claim Paris St-Germain are monitoring his situation in Turin and could make a move once their Champions League campaign has drawn to a close. It is believed Ronaldo’s super-agent Jorge Mendes has already been offering his client to some of Europe’s biggest clubs. Spanish football expert Guillem Balague revealed earlier this week that the former Real Madrid man has even been offered to El Clasico rivals Barcelona. “The reason why Cristiano Ronaldo has been linked to PSG is not so much that PSG are thinking of getting him, it is because Jorge Mendes has been given instructions to find a team for Ronaldo,” Balague told BBC Radio 5 Live. “We’ve seen this in the last six months, he was linked to Real Madrid. “They said no chance, he’s not coming back. And there’s been talks about the MLS because Juventus want to get rid of that wage. “It is as drastic as that. He’s been offered everywhere, including Barcelona. “I’m not sure if they can get rid of him easily (because) with the kind of money he still earns — 23 million euros net — that he was earning at Real Madrid and I think he equalled those wages when he went to Juventus. “Who is going to pay that kind of money?” — The Daily Star.