The Herald GLASGOW. — Celtic and Aberdeen have had their next two Scottish Premiership matches postponed after their players broke lockdown rules. Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon demanded the cancellation after Celtic defender Boli Bolingoli flew to Spain, failed to quarantine, then played in a match. Sturgeon said this was a “flagrant breach” of the guidelines, while Celtic manager Neil Lennon described himself as “livid” after the “incredibly selfish” player went “rogue”. The previous weekend, eight Aberdeen players broke lockdown regulations by visiting a bar together. Following the First Minister’s intervention, it has been confirmed that Celtic’s trip to St Mirren and Aberdeen’s meeting with Hamilton Academical today are both off. So, too, is the game between Celtic and Aberdeen on Saturday. That comes after Aberdeen’s game at St Johnstone last weekend was postponed following Scottish government intervention. At her daily briefing earlier yesterday, Sturgeon said that “as a minimum, you should not be expecting to see Aberdeen or Celtic play in the coming week.” “Consider today the yellow card. The next time it will be the red card because you will leave us with absolutely no choice. Sturgeon said news of Bolingoli’s breach came through on Monday while national clinical director, Professor Jason Leitch, was meeting with the managers and captains of Scotland’s top-flight clubs to reinforce the importance of the guidance. “This is just not acceptable,” she added. “Every day I stand here and ask members of the public to make huge sacrifices on how they live their lives. The vast majority are doing that and it’s not easy. “We can’t have privileged football players just deciding they are not going to bother. This can’t go on.” The first minister said she did not want rule-abiding clubs and players, as well as fans, to be punished for the individual breaches. But she indicated “very clear penalties” will be in place for players and clubs when rules are breached. — BBC Sport.