The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter TRIATHLON Zimbabwe are looking at staging a few training events in preparation of the 2020-2021 season they hope could get underway next month. The season usually gets underway in September and they have come up with a provisional calendar in anticipation of a new season. Triathlon Zimbabwe president, Dave Ellis, said so far they have been cleared by the Sports and Recreation Commission to have training events. The first one is expected on August 23 at Donnybrook. “We have drawn up a calendar. It’s a provisional calendar to start in September and that’s, obviously, dependent on the circumstances,’’ he said. “We have a few training events before that, which are duathlon events, the one which will be on the weekend of the 23rd of August at Donnybrook. ‘‘That will be a training event, not an official event as such. We will get the kids and everyone ready for the season with duathlon. “We plan to start the season on the 27th of September at the Mount Pleasant pool with the normal events taking place. ‘‘We are hoping that’s going to happen but, obviously, as I said, that is dependent on what happens in the scenario we face. “We have been given clearance by the SRC to conduct training events, I am not sure whether we have received our official clearance for the season to start but I guess we will be putting that in pretty soon.’’ The national association have put in place a plan to ensure safety for everyone involved. “We are categorised as a low risk sport and we have a Covid-19 plan to implement at the pool,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s quite comprehensive, we take it from the blue print that we get from the World Health Organisation through the ITU (International Triathlon Union). ‘‘Obviously, we would want it to be as safe as possible for athletes and for the spectators. ‘‘We are also meeting this weekend, as a crew at the pool, to get through that plan. “In normal circumstances, people would flow freely through the gate…all of that will change. ‘‘Athletes will go one direction and the spectators will go in another direction and we will have, obviously, all the Covid-19 masks and cleaning material.’’