The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 United States singer and fashion icon, Beyonce Knowles-Carter, has released the much-awaited film — “Black Is King”. Bey, as she is affectionately known, once shed light on black beauty in a way that no one else has seemed to accomplish yet. This ranged from the intentionality of her long cornrows and the way her clothes drape elegantly over her curves to the homage she pays to the ancestors through costuming. The film has caused a stir the world over because of her fashion statement. That is a fashion queen for you. So, being it a weekend and we are approaching Heroes Day and Defence Forces Day holidays, there is nothing quite like the feeling of wearing a summer dress or short in style. Why don’t you be a fashion hero this year by playing it well with colours. Somehow we are certainly not yet in the heat of summer, but that does not stop you from preparing and knowing the trendy colours and fashion items to pick for this season, hence you wear with confidence. Surprisingly, I had my share of favourite colours, but believe you me, most men are now embracing the colour trend too. Back in the day, it was a bit weird for men to be seen moving around wearing a red or yellow shirt, now they are busy chasing the latest trends. Again, with Covid-19 lockdown continuing, there is no way you can go to a fashion shop and have time with a stylist because of the global pandemic, now the job has been left to fashion bloggers or some stylist have resorted in helping online. To move with the hanger, here are top colours not to miss and how you can pull the look: Blue The colour is a favourite for many and with blue being the colour of both the sky and the ocean, it can immediately have a calming effect on a person. Whether dark or light, blue evokes a serene feeling. Just pair your blue item with a lighter colour, for example white. If you are wearing a blue jacket, make sure there is a white shirt or white pants. If you opt for a blue shirt, in this season definitely khaki pants can steal the look. For ladies, a blue dress halter neck paired with a crochet maxi-cardigan can turn heads. If you want to go the pants way then make sure your top is not too bright or has not much detail. Blush pink This softest shade of pink is one of very favourite colours, especially with ladies or babies. Blush pink or millennial pink as some would want to call it, is a pastel hue that is most definitely not reserved solely for winter or Easter holiday. It is just too ‘holy’ and pure, hence blush can really act as a neutral, as it goes with almost anything in your closet, yet still has that feminine flair most people love. To avoid being mistaken for a sofa cushion or fluffy rug, make sure when you wear the colour you just don’t overkill it, but be subtle. Burnt orange Maybe not an obvious choice, but burnt orange has gained momentum this season and already it has replaced the popular summer shirts with animal prints. It is actually cool on a tracksuit rather than a dress or suit. Yellow Well, the list would not be complete without yellow. The colour of the sun and the happiest colour out there is a must for every Jack and Jill to own any item in such colour. The colour can instantly boost your mood simply by putting on a yellow article of clothing, and it is guaranteed to bring smiles to those around you, too. Let it be known that we are not merely suggesting a mellow yellow. Heck no! Bring on the bold, bright version of this colour. Shine like the sunshine! I love yellow on socks. Red You might initially see red and think Valentine’s Day or Christmas, but red is, well, red hot this summer. Try this colour with anything bold blue or black as it brings the vibrant in you. It is a powerful colour, representing excitement and energy.