The Herald Sports Reporter HARARE City Council have admitted foreign currency challenges remain an obstacle in their bid to ensure all the swimming pools under their management are in good shape. Council spokesperson, Michael Chideme, said the availability of resources determines what happens with regards to the provision of required chemicals at different facilities. “Availability of resources determines what happens,’’ said Chideme. “Yes, water for swimming pools will be available. “So, availability of foreign currency to buy chemicals, if its available, yes, we will buy the chemicals like we have always done. “Chemicals have always been a topical issue because we need forex and we have not been generating foreign currency because we were charging in local currency. “But, the issue of swimming pools functioning, yes, once the ban on swimming is lifted, our swimming pools will start working.’’ Before the lockdown, there were concerns regarding the lack of maintenance of the facilities, as well as the reliable supply of water. “Some of the pools are currently closed, including George Hartley Swimming Pool in Mbare, Highfield Swimming Pool and several others, across the city. “Those are public swimming pools, so, under Covid-19, you can’t risk the life of people by getting those big numbers to swim in one pool. “They have been closed because of Covid-19,” said Chideme. However, a visit to Les Brown, where most competitions are held, revealed some maintenance work was being carried out in preparation for the new swimming season. Water has been drained, as they are looking at working on areas were tiles have been damaged, as well as repair some of the pipes. Harare Amateur Swimming, who are working in conjunction with the City Council for the maintenance works at Les Brown, said the partnership was important. Harare Amateur Swimming board chairperson, Ian Franceys, said while waiting for approval from the Sports and Recreation Committee, to start competitive galas, they have decided to spruce up the pool. “As the Harare Swimming Amateur board, we work with City of Harare to hold our galas because this is in the Harare province, this is the only 50-metre swimming pool we have access to. “So, what we are working on now is just the maintenance of the pool.’’ But it, looks like, the pools in the high density areas are not getting similar attention, for now. Residents in Mbare said they last accessed their swimming pool late last year.