The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
South Africa-based Zimbabwean actor Leroy Gopal says he enjoyed working with local young and veteran actors on a new movie titled “Shaina”, which is set to première today on ZBCTV. It will be repeated on the same channel on Sunday morning to accommodate those who would have missed the movie tonight. The movie, which features Jesesi Mungoshi, Edmore Sandifolo, Marian Kunonga, Tarumbidzwa Chirume, Gamu Mukwakwami, Charmanie Mujeri and Wilmah Munemera, was produced by Quizzical Pictures. It was written by Wanisai Chigwendere and directed by Beautie Masvaure. Gopal said the film has given the youngsters, especially the girl child, a platform to shine and that is the way film and television industry should go to promote talent. “The experience of working with local acts was fantastic. I think I was there for interacting with young and upcoming actors on the movie, hearing what they feel and see about the movie industry. “I once worked with Masvaure on “Yellow Card” and that time she was our script and continuity advisor. “She contacted me directly because of our past relationship. I can’t compare our local industry with South Africa because we are totally different and Zimbabwe is not lacking anything because they have the talent and creative mind. They just don’t have the platform to tell their Zimbabwean stories,” he explained. According to Masvaure, the movie is a captivating drama with ultimate lesson of resilience and ingenuity in the face of tough challenges. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe communication specialist Patricia Mabviko said she was happy with the way local filmmakers were telling the Zimbabwean story and putting the country on the map. “It is a must-watch for everyone. The movie is exceptional in the way that it allows us to vividly see the struggles faced by young people in their desire to achieve their goals, which is sometimes further complicated by the demands to survive on a daily basis. The question is really, what you do in the face of tough challenges. It is a story of determination, of hope and of resilience which I believe will appeal to all Zimbabweans,” she said. The movie was made possible through support from United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Zimbabwe.