The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HARARE Sports Club captain, Osborne Muhambi, says he will now play for, at least, two more seasons, on a bit-part basis, after being denied what would have been his swansong season. This followed the cancellation of the 2020 season due to Covid-19. The 31-year-old former Sables Number 8 had prepared for his farewell campaign at the end of the season. “I am now looking forward to the 2021 season and I will be playing here, and there, I will be involved more and more into developing the sport in the grassroots, including in my hometown, Norton,” said Muhambi. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we aren’t able to do what we have been used to doing. “It’s a major blow, I definitely know everyone has been affected in one way or the other by this pandemic. “Personally, I was looking at relinquishing my captaincy, after this season at Harare Sports Club, to pave way for other youngsters. “I just feel that my time as a leader is up and I need to pass on the responsibility to others. “I was looking forward to my last full rugby season but Covid-19 has denied me that chance. “I will still play for another two, or three years but, I won’t be as active as I have been.” Muhambi said they had prepared well for the season and were ready to pounce when authorities halted the programme. “As Harare Sports Club, we had prepared well and I should say we were ready for the 2020 season,’’ he said. “We had worked really hard during pre-season and we were prepared for the term. “But, I guess, it is what it is, there is nothing much that we can do about it but it is a major disappointment.” For Muhambi, who is one of the five players suspended from the Sables over disciplinary issues, the cancellation of the season is a double bow. “I am also a coach at Hellenic and the suspension of the season has had the same impact it has had on my playing career,’’ he said. “I also have a passion for development and I was looking forward to start imparting skills to all those youngsters out there. “In terms of impact on my income, the suspension has had a terrible impact but I should appreciate that my employers haven’t forgotten us. “I am grateful to Hellenic as they continue paying me. “But, I miss those bruises which come with playing the game.’’