The Herald Today, the country celebrates the all-important Zimbabwe Defence Forces Day, a key event on the national calendar as we salute our soldiers who sacrifice everything to ensure that we have a peaceful environment that enables development. As the country pursues Vision 2030 to become a middle class economy, it is key to have peace and unity. It is also critical to ensure that any threat to the country whether internally or externally is dealt with so that the country remains peaceful and attractive to investment. We would like to therefore join President Mnangagwa, who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, for leading an exemplary Defence Force that has kept us safe and sound even as some warmongers are yet again throwing spanners into the Second Republic’s path to economic recovery and job creation for its people. The country’s security forces have played a significant role in facilitating the attainment of the vision for the country to become a middle income nation by 2030 as espoused by President Mnangagwa, as they are on guard to safeguard property and property rights that are often threatened by the country’s detractors and opposition. The security services carry an onerous role in maintaining a tranquil environment that is conducive to economic development, for there can be no development without peace. It is therefore essential that the country poses, reflects and appreciates the role that our security forces play, the sacrifices they make in safeguarding our national independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty is something that we have to celebrate every day. Despite hallucinations and cynical concoctions by supremacist nations, that covert the country’s rich natural endowments and use local lackeys to throw aspersions on the people’s Defence Forces, the country today enjoys peace and tranquillity because of the patriotism of men and women who are serving in the Army and Airforce. Our Defence Forces should not be distracted by quislings who want to reverse the gains of the country’s liberation struggle in order to open the doors for the country’s erstwhile colonisers to come and loot Zimbabwe again. It is worth noting that our Defence Forces have remained resolute in maintaining peace, unity and tranquillity which is perpetually under threat from the country’s detractors, both internally and externally. Just last month, the country’s detractors were trying to subvert the will of the people through demonstrations. A commendable swift response from the country’s Defence Forces reminded the merchants of doom that this country, nestled between the mighty Zambezi and Limpopo Rivers has men and women of integrity who are keeping a faithful watch and who will never allow anyone to put the lives of Zimbabweans in harm’s way again. We say bravo to our security forces and doff our hats off for the people who ensure that we go about our businesses without fear, Thank You for the protection and sacrifice you make daily. It goes without saying that we have one of the most loyal Defence Forces, this is demonstrated in the roles that our security forces play in peacekeeping missions around the world. Internally, the country’s security forces have been doing a sterling job in mitigating effects of natural disasters such as Cyclone Idai, which left a trail of destruction in the eastern parts of the country. The security forces were and are still in the thick of things reopening areas that were pummelled by the natural disaster, they give succour to everyone regardless of political affiliation because they are professional Defence Forces that are there to serve the people and save lives when disaster strikes. The Defence Forces does not only guard jealously the fruits of the country’s independence to ensure that peace prevails and that investors have their investments secure, they also play a proactive role through civil engagements. Countrywide, the Zimbabwe Defence Forces have risked limb and life clearing landmines that were left by the country’s former colonisers. These risk operations have helped communities focus on agriculture without fear of explosions in their areas. Tourism is now also flourishing in areas like Victoria Falls after landmine were removed. The Zimbabwe Defence Forces have also played a key role in building schools around the country, contributing towards the attainment of the Government Vision 2030 by ensuring that children have access to education so as to create an egalitarian society. We thank them for standing tall notwithstanding the effects of illegal sanctions on the economy. The professionalism in our Defence Forces no doubt contributes to socio-economic transformation as they are guarantors of lasting peace. Today, as new threats such as natural disasters such as Cyclone Idai, pandemics such as the Covid-19 and cyberterrorism, emerge we rest assured and comforted that we have a professional and educated Defence Force that will defend Zimbabwe from any form of threats.