The Herald BARCELONA. — Lionel Messi has been left “furious” at Barcelona as details of a talk with new manager Ronald Koeman were leaked — and Luis Suarez has questions the board. The forward has reportedly started considering his options after the Spanish side’s humiliating Champions League football 8-2 loss to Bayern Munich. Details emerged last week that Messi had cut his holiday short to meet with the Dutchman, saying he is “more likely to leave than stay”. While president Josep Bartomeu was left thinking Messi would stay, Catalan radio station RAC1 said the 33-year-old had hinted at an exit. And Argentine newspaper Clarin has now claimed that the public leaks of these meeting details have left Barca’s captain “furious”. Messi has scored 634 goals in more than 700 appearances for Barca, winning 10 La Liga titles and four Champions League honours. He has been joined by Suarez since 2014, with the forward grabbing 198 goals in nearly 300 appearances. But the Uruguayan has also had his say on a lack of direct contact with the people at the top of the Barcelona chain. Speaking to Spanish outlet AS, the forward said: “There has been talk of some names that the president suggested, changes that could be made, but nobody has told me that they want to get rid of me. “If that is what the club wants it would be nice if the director responsible for these decisions spoke directly with me. “It’s better than leaking if I’m one of the players they want to leave. We’ll see what happens. “I want what’s best for the club as well and right now my intention is to stay on but if the club decide I’m no longer wanted, I have no problem talking to those that decide. Koeman? I haven’t spoken to him yet.” It comes as Manchester United legend Rio Ferdinand believes Messi will be considering his Barcelona future following the Bayern trashing. The BT Sport pundit said: “Does he want to spend his time left in that shirt given the performances and the way the squad is looking at the moment in comparison to other teams around Europe? “Has he got the time to sit there and wait?” — The Daily Star.