The Herald THE crisis-hit 2019/2010 Zambia Super League, which was set to end prematurely yesterday, will spill into the weekend and, judging by the unfolding drama off the pitch, it’s unlikely that will be the end of the circus. Just minutes before Nkana were about to be crowned champions, after Napsa Stars lost 0-1 to Forest Rangers at the Arthur Davies Stadium in Kitwe yesterday, the drama took another twist. As the Nkana players celebrated, it was announced the Appeals Committee had overturned the decision to punish Rangers, for their failure to fulfil a league match against Zanaco a few weeks ago. Rangers, who are coached by former Hwange and FC Platinum gaffer, Tenant Chilumba, pulled out of the match after a number of their players, and officials, tested positive to Covid-19. The club were deemed to have forfeited the match, losing it on a 0-3 scoreline, but the Appeals Committee overturned that decision and ordered that the game be replayed on Sunday. This means that Rangers, who took their points tally to 49 points, one behind Nkana, can win the league title by beating Zanaco on Sunday, Former Highlanders coach, Mohamed Fathi, would have won the championship had Napsa Stars beat Rangers yesterday. However, irrespective of what happens on Sunday, it’s unlikely to be the end of the story. Two clubs, Power Dynamos and Mufulira Wanderers, have launched separate appeals to the football authorities in Zambia. “On behalf of the Board and Management of Mufulira Wanderers Football Club, I wish to submit an earnest concern on the decision made by the Executive Committee of the Football Association of Zambia to prematurely close the 2019/2020 Zambian Premier League Season at Week 27,’’ Chimwemwe Luzendu, the chief executive of Mufulira Wanderers, wrote in a letter to the league’s management. “As members of the ZPL we are more than aware of the fact that our country and consequently our football, has also been affected by the global COVID-19 pandemic. In that regard we acknowledge the fact that we are not able to continue running our league this season. “However, that been said, as the main stake holders of the league, we would like to bring to your attention the following points: When the resumption of the league was being contemplated, the Association did not at any point consult us to take in our views or hear what challenges/ requirements we would have in order for us to complete the season under our new normal. When the Association did engage us it was not to consult us but to inform us of the league resumption, schedule and health guidelines required. The Association reassured us that we would receive relief funds that would cushion the impact of Covid 19 on the clubs. To date those funds have not been made available. As such we have had to prepare our stadia, isolate our players, camp our teams, conduct Covid tests and cover game logistics all at our cost. This in addition to the fact that we have had no income coming in from gate takings on top of having to fulfil contractual obligations such as salaries for players and essential staff during this Covid-19 period. We cannot be held accountable for delayed Covid results when we are not the ones providing/conducting the tests or even releasing the results. Despite challenges, clubs have been conducting said tests but have not been receiving the results in time through no fault of our own. When it became apparent that the league may not be concluded on the pitch, we once more were not consulted on the way forward. Instead a decision was made in the boardroom and imposed upon us. ‘’Taking into account the above facts, as members of the ZPL and being its stake holders we call for the decision to decide the league at week 27 to be rescinded. ‘’Looking at the commitment and investment already put in by us we appeal for the league to end in the following manner: No champion to be crowned. The point difference between the top 6 teams is too small for the league to be decided with seven games to go. No relegation — teams have a fighting chance and have invested heavily financially in their survival plans. Seven games are too many to decide the fate of a club. Declare the league null and void.’’ — Sports Reporter/Zamfoot.