The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sport Reporter
WHEN Biggie Zuze made the big move from Bindura to Harare in the early ‘80s, little did he know his younger brother, Garikayi, would join him into becoming a Glamour Boy. Today, the people of Bindura will gather at the Zuze family home, in Chipadze, for a memorial service to remember the late Biggie, who died on June 25. He joined Dynamos in 1983 and went on to win four league titles. The arrival of Garikayi, five years later, meant Dynamos now had Bindura Part 1 and Bindura Part 2. The nicknames were handed out to the players by veteran football journalist, Charles “CNN” Mabika. “Biggie was the first to join Dynamos and, up to now, I think he is the biggest sensation to come out of Mashonaland Central and make such an impact at a big club like Dynamos,” said Mabika. “Garikayi didn’t have a nickname, when he arrived, so I thought if Biggie was Bindura then his younger brother should be Bindura Part 2. “And, it stuck, just like that. “Although Garikayi came in as a winger, he still coordinated well with his brother, who operated in the heart of the midfield. “I think what made them successful is that these guys adapted quickly to the demands of the Dynamos faithful.’’ Garikayi won four league titles with the Glamour Boys between 1988 and 1997. The Zuze brothers grew up in a football family, under the wings of their late father Lewis, who played for Bindura Rovers (later Bindura United). Their sister, Christine, once played for a Bindura side called Burning Stars in the ‘80s. “Our father was the biggest inspiration,” Garikayi told The Saturday Herald yesterday. “He was a talented footballer, in his own right, but he didn’t go far. “He encouraged us to play and I think all of us, in the family, including our sister Christine, played football at some point.’’ Biggie arrived DeMbare when the Glamour Boys were in crisis, after losing the bulk of their senior players, to newboys Black Rhinos. He payed alongside the likes of David Mandigora, Kenneth Jere, Elvis “Chuchu” Chiweshe, Clayton Munemo and Moses Chunga. Garikayi was spotted by then coach, Micky Poole, while playing at the Coca-Cola Under-17 schools football tournament. “My brother was already a star at Dynamos and, together with his friend Clayton Munemo, they encouraged me to come to DeMbare,’’ said Garikayi. “I was very excited because that was the team our family supported. “When I joined Dynamos in 1988, it was more of a dream come true. “In 1989, I was chosen for the five-a-side team for the Futsal World Championships in Netherlands. “I was also later called to the senior national team and played some games.” The Zuze brothers rose from obscurity to join the likes of Sunday and Misheck Chidzambwa, Moses and Kembo Chunga, Vitalis Takawira and Claudius Zviripayi. “Biggie was my teacher, a brother and father,’’ he said. “He told me when I came to Dynamos that ‘don’t change the way you play. You are good in your own unique way.’ “Clayton Munemo would also say the same things. He would encourage me to work hard. “The competition for places in the team was stiff. I would remain behind, after training, and work hard to the extent that our coach Mickey Poole came to me and told me to slow down a bit. “But, when Sunday Chidzambwa came, he would say if you are not fit you don’t qualify to be in my team.’’ Garikayi, who holds a Level Two coaching certificate, is now into junior football after establishing an academy with Kingston Rinemhota. The academy, which is now two years old, has been forced to use the Bindura showgrounds for training because Chipadze is in dilapidated state. “You cannot imagine that is the stadium where Biggie, myself, and other top-flight players came from,’’ he said. “People here always talk about Bindura Part 1 and Bindura Part 2 but the sad part is that we do not have any Premiership football here. “I really don’t know if the authorities are serious about football.’’ Garikayi hopes to venture into full-time coaching, just like his late brother, who had stints with Dynamos, Sporting Lions, Monomotapa, Triangle, and Douglas Warriors. The memorial service for the late Biggie will start at 10am today.