The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
BN Academy finally have something to smile about after one of their brightest prospects, Ryan Aliam, left for the United States on a football scholarship on Monday. The academy, just like all football clubs in the country, had their programmes halted by Covid-19. Several of their players were scheduled to go for trials in Europe but could not undertake the trips. The Under-13 side were supposed to participate in the 24-team London Cup tournament in England but the outbreak of the coronavirus put all that on hold. But, on Monday, Aliam left for the United States in what the academy’s director, Bekhimpilo Nyoni, described as a positive development. The academy was also set to participate in the Harare Academies league that was scheduled to start in April. “The academy has been affected big time this year,’’ said Nyoni. “We haven’t trained since March and we had planned for our Under-21 to play in the Harare League as a way of preparing our boys to turn professional. “This league was supposed to start in April. Our Under-13 team was supposed to play in their first London Cup at the end of July. “This is one of the top junior tournaments in the world and, as an academy, we stood to gain a lot. “Twenty-four teams, from various parts of the world, were scheduled to take part in the tournament and I should say it’s indeed a lost opportunity. “Ten of our Under-20 boys were scheduled to join Football CV Academy Development Camp in the UK on August 16. “But as an academy, we are happy that Ryan (Aliam), who got a soccer scholarship at a university in North Carolina in the United States, has finally left. “We are also working to ensure that one boy is going to join Football CV Academy on full-time in mid-September. We will avail all the details, including the boy’s name, after we clear some processes.” The academy are also processing papers for Under-20 player, Dennis Kalongwe, who has been invited for trials at Spanish side Malaga. Kalongwe was identified by Malaga last season and the team asked to have a closer look at the player this year.