The Herald Arts Reporter
Award-winning gospel outfit United Family International Church Choir has released a 12-track live DVD titled “Creative Worship and Praise”. The album was produced by Nigel Nyangombe and Michael Mahendere and was mixed by Courage Manyumwa at Your Sound Studios. Some of the worship songs include “I love Your Presence” by Psalmist Hubert C, “Anondichengeta” performed by Ladies in Music, “Ariko Asingarare” by Worshipper Larry Gunda, “Ndinokunda” by Caution  Katsuwa, “Mwari weBhetere” by Thulani Dete and “Mupinduri Wemubvunzo” by Tapiwa Masara. Those that enjoy dancing can listen to the song “Manna God” by Trevor Danda, public domain song “Bigger Than”, “Greater Life” by Pastor Alex Gunda and “Nyasha Dzenyu” by Caroline Nyakuba. In an interview, UFIC Choir leader Pastor Hubert Chigumira, aka Psalmist Hubert C, said he was delighted with the new offering. “We are very excited to finally bring this new album to the world which we recorded last year and we strongly believe that many will enjoy it as it carries both praise and worship songs,” he said. “On this DVD album you will get sungura, Afrojazz, Nigerian sound and even soft rock sound, no wonder the album title because it’s a mixed bag.” The DVD album is now available on all online store platforms such as ITunes, Spotify, Godsent and Google Play. Chigumira said over the years the choir has been able to produce solo artistes who are doing well in the music industry. Some of them include himself, Worshipper Larry Gunda, Minister Michael Mahendere, Caution Katsuwa, Tapiwa Masara, Alex Gunda and Carol Nyakuba. Currently they have lunched a women’s wing of the choir called “Ladies in Music” to help female singers get into the limelight. “We now have a section of the choir called Ladies in Music and in this new album they performed the song “Anondichengeta” which was written by Minister Michael Mahendere. “This is because Family music is in the business of grooming and nurturing talent and unleash it to the world and we believe more is yet to come,” said Chigumira. The choir’s last album was called “In the Sanctuary”.