The Herald LAHORE. — If things fall in place, Pakistan will once again play international cricket at home this year. Pakistan Cricket Board chief executive, Wasim Khan, has hinted the board is working hard to complete the fifth season of the Pakistan Super League, which was brought to a halt by the Covid-19 pandemic in March. With only two semi-finals and a final match remaining in the tournament, Wasim believes a three-day slot inside a bio-secure bubble, without allowing spectators, is all players and organisers need to compete an otherwise intriguing season. “We are also determined to complete the Pakistan Super League 2020 this year and are looking for a three-day window,’’ Wasim Khan said during a webinar hosted by British Asian Trust according to Geo Super TV. Previously, there have been murmurs around the future of PSL 2020 — Pakistan’s biggest T20 league. Speaking on the international cricket in Pakistan, Khan expressed confidence in Zimbabwe agreeing to tour Pakistan in November this year. Khan seems to have kept October 20 as a deadline for Zimbabwean players for they will have to quarantine for some days before taking the field. “We are hoping for Zimbabwe to come and play in Pakistan. They’re scheduled to play with us in November but they’ll come by October 20 to complete their quarantine before the cricket series,” Khan added. International cricket had sort of resumed in full flow in Pakistan on the back of home series against Sri Lanka and Bangladesh and PSL 2020. While security remains less of a concern, it will be interesting to see how PCB manages bio-secure bubbles amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. As far as Zimbabwe are concerned, they were the first country to visit Pakistan after almost six years in 2015. Since then, the two sides have met twice in Zimbabwe. After playing white-ball cricket in Zimbabwe in 2015, Pakistan also toured the nation in 2018. If the proposed tour goes ahead, Zimbabwe will play three ODIs and as many T20Is in Pakistan this year. — the sportsrush