The Herald Chief Court Reporter
THE High Court has reserved ruling on Felix Munyaradzi’s bail application on charges of selling State land and stands without servicing. He is accused of duping a number of people including Drax International country representative Mr Delish Nguwaya, Epworth school teacher Mrs Maria Gabaza, a top cop Commissioner Erasmus Makodza and a Harare man, Mr Ronald Dondo, in a residential stands deal. Munyaradzi was early this month denied bail at the Harare Magistrates’ Court on the four counts of fraud after the State expressed fears that he would interfere with investigations since most of the witnesses are his workers. This prompted him to approach the High Court on appeal against the remand magistrate’s decision. Munyaradzi argued that the remand magistrate misdirected himself in denying him bail on “flimsy” allegations of fraud and that he did not properly applied his mind to the facts and law on the matter. He contends that he is a suitable candidate for bail and seeks an order reversing the (lower) court decision. Through his lawyers, Munyaradzi is even offering stringent conditions to secure his freedom. Justice Tawanda Chitapi heard the bail appeal yesterday and postponed the matter to next week on Wednesday, when he is expected to hand down judgment. Charges against Munyaradzi arose in 2015, after his company, Delatfin Investment (Pvt) Ltd entered into a swap deal with Mr Nguwaya for the sale of stands in exchange of a Toyota Prado. Delatfin Investment sold three residential stands — Numbers 1572, 1516 and 1471 — in Sandton Park, Mt Hampden, worth US$50 000. Nguwaya is alleged to have surrendered the Prado (registration ADQ 3688) and an agreement of sale was signed on February 2, 2018. It is alleged that Munyaradzi went on to sell the stands to other people, which prompted Mr Nguwaya to engage him. The court heard that Munyaradzi then agreed to compensate Mr Nguwaya with eight smaller stands in Sandton Park, Harare. But Munyaradzi allegedly went on to sell one of the stands to Tawanda Mashumba for US$30 000. It is the State’s case that Nguwaya was aware that the stand in question had already been sold. Mr Nguwaya lost US$15 000 in the process. On April 20, 2015 Delatfin Investment was offered 120 hectares of land by the Ministry of Local Government for residential stands development. The piece of land was State land and is being used by Zimbabwe Republic Police for breeding horses. Sometime in 2016, Munyaradzi through his Delatfin Investment, allegedly fraudulently sold the stand to Mrs Gabaza for US$18 000. Munyaradzi is alleged to have sold another stand in Sandton Phase 3 to Mr Dondo for US$22 000 and sold another stand in the same neighbourhood to Comm Makodza for US$40 000. Comm Makodza is said to have later discovered that the same stand had been sold to someone named as Mrs Nyongo by Munyaradzi, forcing him to lodge a complaint with the police.