The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FOR Mike Fokorani, running was something he did for fun during his High School days in the ‘90s it never crossed his mind it would become a career. He is among Zimbabwe’s top veteran long-distance runners and, at his prime, he represented the country at the World Championships. He became the first Zimbabwean marathon runner to receive an Olympic Solidarity Scholarship. Fokorani made it to the 2008 Olympic Games, with an A-standard qualifying time, when he ran 2hours 14minutes 01seconds at the Pyongyang race in North Korea in April 2007. “Of course, I am proud to say those occasions were my best achievements in my career,’’ he said. ‘‘That was my dream, which came true in 2007 and 2008. “It all started during my ‘O’ level studies at Kuhondo High School in Dotito, Mt Darwin. ‘‘From Form One to Four I was running middle distances and cross country. I represented my school from zonal, districts and nationals every year. “I remember Dairibord Company was sponsoring cross country competitions in 1995 to 1998. ‘‘Soon after my ‘O’ Level, I joined the late coach, Artwell Mandaza, at Trojan Mine.’’ Fokorani says the 2007 performance in North Korea opened doors for him. ‘’This performance opened the doors for me to represent my country in the World Championships in Osaka, Japan 2007,’’ he said. “I was the first man in 2007 to get an A-standard time and first long-distance runner in the history of Zimbabwe to get the Olympic scholarship qualification. ‘‘For me, it meant a lot in terms of sport development in Zimbabwe. “It showed me that there was hope in athletics. Soccer was the only sport popularly known in Zimbabwe then. ‘‘But, that scholarship sent a loud statement for athletics to be taken seriously, like any other sport. ‘‘All these achievements happened through hard work, perseverance and discipline.’’ In 2016, he won the Two Oceans Ultra Marathon. The Bindura athlete remains active in the sport he credits for changing his life from a poor rural boy to someone who now can provide for his family. He is married to Margaret Nyamande Chinodakufa and they have five children – three boys – Isaac, Munashe and Mike – and two girls – Jane and Shalom. “When I started, I was just an ordinary guy from a poor family,’’ he said. ‘’But, right now, I thank God from the bottom of my heart, my life changed for the better. ‘‘Although many people say money will never be enough I can say it’s enough in Jesus name. “I got my good family through this sport and they really support me. “I see the presence of God in all my achievements, which has led me to fear God and become a Christian.” He is also into mining and retailing. “During my days there were more races being hosted by mines, in preparation for the Chamber of Mines,’’ he said. ‘‘It was regarded as a big competition organised by a group of mines in Zimbabwe, which attracted many runners. ‘‘Many of them, including myself, got employed through running. “Running road races became easier and am still doing track during my training programmes. ‘‘I worked with the late Artwell Mandaza and Marko Mambo, who is still helping me, although we are all veterans but he is older than me.’’