The Herald Ms  G In my first article weeks ago I wrote about a hit variety show in China called Sisters who make waves and shared my thoughts about how it inspires women of all ages to break free from constraints and unlock their full potential. In fact, in the past few years, China’s TV screen has also seen a blossoming of dramas talking about women’s empowerment. I think it began in 2011 with “Empresses in the Palace”, a story about how a naive and idealistic 17-year old girl matures into the all-powerful Empress Dowager through her wit and resourcefulness. This was followed in 2017 by “Nothing Gold Can Stay” about the legendary life of a widow in the late Qing dynasty who revitalises the business of her husband’s family at a time when businesswoman was not only extremely rare, but also distrusted and derided. “Nothing But Thirty” is the latest addition to this list. Set in the metropolitan Chinese city of Shanghai, it follows the story of three women about to enter their thirties tackling challenges that many of their peers in China are facing. One is an impeccable, brainy housewife bent on giving her son an elite education and supporting her husband’s fireworks business; another is an unmotivated white-collar trying to find out what she really wants in a bland job and bland marriage; a third is a small town girl giving it all to make it in the big city. The drama evokes an enthusiastic response from the Chinese viewers. It deals with many anxieties the modern Chinese urban dwellers face,  especially women: balance between career and family roles, relationships, peer pressure, tough competition for good educational resources, and the long-existing gender norms, to name a few. The three heroines navigate societal expectations and double standards, cut through conventions, find love, and make a future for themselves — the thread running through all this is a discovery of their inner power. This emerging feminist narrative on China’s TV landscape captures the growing societal trend towards women’s empowerment in the country and beyond. In the past, girls were moulded at home and in school to be meek, unambitious, and marriable; today they are encouraged to be bold, independent, and become themselves before becoming a Mrs. The age 30 used to be considered a turning point from which onwards unmarried women “lose value”, now it is embraced as a new starting point when women begin to exude a deeper and more substantial quality of female energy. I once had the opportunity to listen to a Zimbabwean female minister’s speech about women’s empowerment. Her vibrant personality, her soft yet powerful manner of speaking, her own record of a fearless fight, and her genuine compassion for the struggles of all women were all mesmerising. Looking further across Zimbabwe, I am impressed by quite a number of female leaders active in their respective fields, making a big difference in the lives of many. Isn’t it also wonderful news that Sandra Ndebele is coming back with a completely new look? Surely her curvy figure is fine, but what strikes me most is the can-do spirit in the lady that cheers all of us on. This awakening of she power is sweeping across developing and developed countries alike. More than women’s personal fulfilment, the growing trend promises to make families happier, kids more confident, societies healthier, and the world more peaceful and prosperous. But an awakening is only the start. What follows must be an unapologetic, proud wielding of she power that makes things happen and brings about real change. Both Chinese and Zimbabweans already have good role models to look up to.