The Herald Lifestyle Writer
Elegance, lasting impressions and turning heads sums almost every woman’s expectation on their wedding day. This happens when the bride is resplendent in a gown or dress which makes her exude confidence. Keeping ‘‘lustful’’ male guests drooling should not come as a surprise to many in attendance when all is on point. It is also a special day when genuine friends or would-be brides should at least go home with one or two lessons. Not to be outdone are neutrals who would either appreciate or not those body-hugging gowns which expose part of the flesh, leaving little to imagination. Being a special occasion for the bride of the day, let us not forget hard-to-please people who would not record any positives on this big occasion. “I think the gown doesn’t fit her frame . . . the dress is substandard . . . she was short-changed . . . umm, she is struggling to walk in that dress . . . she should have consulted us . . .” These are the kind of comments we expect from failed female friends when the bride of the day nails it when it comes to proper wedding gowns. However, it should be noted that one has to invest in time, research and of course money to get a trending or glamorous gown. With the world reeling from the Covid-19 pandemic, weddings have to continue under strict conditions. Weddings have to adhere to precautions such as social distancing, minimising numbers and sanitising to reduce the spread of the  contagious disease. And one person who can make your wedding day worthwhile is Linda Rukuni. Determined to provide the stuff which meets the client’s expectations, Rukuni of Hibre Fashions boasts of synergies with other stylists in other countries. She hires out gowns to brides and is now one of the most sought-after stylists in the capital. “I realised that weddings would certainly continue during lockdown so I decided to revamp my stocks and ensure that newly-weds get a cheer on the day they exchange vows,” she said. Linda, who has worked with prominent ministers and celebrities on corporate events said she won’t stop researching on new fashion trends despite the Covid-19 pandemic taking its toll. “We don’t know when this thing will come to an end or recede but what we are sure is that we might be forced to live with it for ages. “As a stylist, I still have to dig deeper in my bag of tricks and ensure that I give my clients the best service I can. “When it comes to special events like weddings, I have realised that I should do my best to complement ladies who are very particular with their looks, “ she says. Asked how she came up with the idea of dressing brides and bride-maids in this Covid-19 era, Linda said: “Firstly, you must understand that Zimbabwean women do love fashion and you can’t separate them with others from the rest of the world. “Being one of the stylists on home soil and dressing women on different special occasions, I am now being pushed to really go an extra mile and ensure that I provide the best gowns I can. “I also research widely and wisely which has helped me a lot to ensure that I provide the best services I can.” “I have connections in Spain, Italy and China where I get some of the orders. “I make sure that I get the latest stuff which is trending on the global scene to ensure we do not lag behind. This has helped me a lot to ensure that I get new clients who would come looking for my services. “As someone who has made connections, I can’t afford to disappoint my clients when they approach me looking for advice. “We also advise them on whether the stuff or services they want are available,” she said. Being the most sought-after wedding stylist, hiring out dresses to as-far-as Bulawayo and  Mutare, among other towns, in this Covid-19 era, Rukuni says she owes her success to God. “It can only be God who has opened new doors for me during this time when most people have lost their sources of income. “There are also those who are just stranded with nothing to do, but we hope God will open new doors for them. Rukuni said she was extra careful with hirings as she makes sure dresses are well prepared and dry-cleaned upon return. “In fact, my dresses do not even enter our offices or warehouses but they are put in boxes and straight to the dry cleaners. You never know what happens with clients as people handle things differently,” she said. To date, Rukuni has about 120 dresses in different designs. Some local designers approach her for patterns so as to imitate the look.