The Herald Melissa Mhangami Midlands State University
When an unexpected and undesirable deadly infectious disease like Covid-19 becomes a pandemic, it causes fear, anxiety and distress among societies. This is understandable, but the more worrisome part of it is the stigma attached to those infected find themselves in. In sociology term Erving Huffman described stigma as an attitude, behaviour or reputation which is socially discrediting in a particular way. Social stigma as a result of Covid-19 has led to discrimination of the infected patients and those suspected to be Covid-19-positive. This is exacerbated by the fact that according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), those infected should be isolated or quarantine to prevent spreading the virus. Stigma affects negatively the people who have experienced it and the society as whole. Groups stigmatised may feel excluded, unwanted, isolated, depressed, hurt and feel rejected by their own people, hence their reduced social and economic participation. The stigmatised group have a higher chance of being denied jobs and education opportunities, making them feel social outcasts. Stigma can also negatively affect the emotional, mental and physical health of the stigmatised groups and communities they live in. The more worrisome and undesirable effect is that stigma can stop the health workers and emergency service providers from assisting those in need. Stigma related to Covid-19 is undoubtedly caused by the fact that the disease has no cure as yet and people understand the disease spreads rapidly, so people are generally in panic mode. The disease’s symptoms are similar to those of common flu, breathing problems and headaches and this causes confusion where people end up discriminating against unaffected people. One is likely to be isolated and treated like a Covid-19 patient, if one has flu. This may lead to severe depression. The fear is also a result of increased misinformation about how the virus spreads. Usually, stigmatisation happens when the disease is linked with certain people, groups, nationalities, or race. For example, the stigma related to Covid-19 is witnessed on a global level where the United States and Europe, stigmatise people of Asian descent and these victims are treated with suspicion and blamed for Covid-19. In Zimbabwe, the groups which are likely to experience stigma related to Covid-19 are the people returning from other countries regardless of them having the symptoms or not, or having been tested for the disease . The health workers and emergency responders are also not spared as they succumb to stigma. Another group which faces severe stigma is of those recovering from the illness who have been released from the quarantine. These people find it hard to be fairly accepted in society, leading to low social esteem and demoralisation. Everyone can help stop stigmatisation by knowing and getting facts about Covid-19 from reputable sources such as Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Organisation (WHO) which are trustworthy sources of information. The media needs to speak positively about the virus so that it doesn’t create a bad perception of those infected with disease.  Dumisani Mvula Midlands State University Is our traditional education still the key to success? It does not require rocket science to see that our traditional education is failing to keep up with the new information era. I advocate for education because it is every child’s right to be educated. However, our education needs to be geared to meet the demands of the present world realities. Looking closely, the technology industry leads when it comes to upgrading and generating new ideas. For example, Microsoft releases a new software every year which comes up with new and improved functions. Our education system has not changed from the time it was introduced. Go to school and get a good paying job, is what our traditional education teaches us. It never teaches us about making money. It is time we change. Enzo Ferrari was founder of Ferrari Ray Kroc was founder of McDonalds Henry Ford was founder of Ford Motor Company Bill Gates was founder of Microsoft Mark Zuckerberg was founder of Facebook The list above is just few of the many who founded successful companies with or with less traditional education. I am not saying education is not important but I am saying there is more that can be done with the combination of education and creative thinking. “The Government is not doing anything for us”, is the statement that most of the youths are fond of repeating daily. It is time we ask ourselves the questions, what are we doing for the country? Jack Ma, a Chinese billionaire, once said that instead of complaining one should think of ways that he or she can generate income. Our unemployment rate is increasing every time universities release graduates every year onto the market. This is so because all the graduates have the mentality of working but none thinks of coming up with ideas to create employment. The Government has all sort of channels which are ready to explore funding models for start-up businesses which can be brought up by youths but it is disappointing that such channels are  not benefiting many because our education manufactures workers not entrepreneurs. We need to be emancipated from this mentality. What is needed in Zimbabwe are more youths with the business mind of Strive Masiyiwa. Many youths turn to drugs, advising each other that they are escaping from poverty and unemployment. The truth is that such type of thinking is going to lead us deep into poverty. Henry Ford was not educated just like most of the Zimbabwean youths who have turned to drugs. But Ford did not turn to drugs. Instead, he took time to think of ways to make money and he worked on modifying an already existing engine and founded his own company. This is the mentality that will develop Zimbabwe. Running away from our beautiful country and going to other countries, working hard to grow their economies while charging that our economy is bad, is not the solution to the problem. No one is going to develop our economy but us. It is time as youths we engage the government with great ideas that they can fund and work on increasing the number of our local industries. The list of those who turned out to be successful business people in the world is endless. Nothing was special about those people, who had little or limited education but nevertheless turned out to be successful business people owning their own companies and creating employment. This is a challenge to university students in Zimbabwe, let us put pressure on the government for money to fund our ideas and productive projects rather than youths who are always ready to cross the border to work in foreign lands. Let us create employment. Let us not wait to be employed. Let us emancipate ourselves from this mentality. Loreen Mpofu Midlands State University AS 2020 turns out to be a very different year, where the whole world is locked down, there are reasons to feel the positivity it brings to mother Earth. In order to defeat the deadly coronavirus, everything is locked down — factories are shut, no vehicles are allowed in spite of the ZUPCO public transport challenges, and colleges and businesses are closed. In short, for the first time, people are being less disruptive. Birds are chirping, water is clearer, air pollution is decreasing and animals are returning to their habitats. China and other countries have recorded less pollution, rivers are self — cleaning and dolphins are returning to seas. Mother earth is healing quickly without human interruption. The pandemic is not only inflicting positive results on nature itself but also on humans. Most people are utilising the lockdown period to work on shaping up marriages, working out and affording rest to those who normally work non-stop. In this instance, the lockdown becomes a blessing in disguise.  