The Herald Conrad Mupesa – Mashonaland West Bureau
Organisations involved in the upkeep of vulnerable and orphaned children must formalise their operations to protect the children from unscrupulous overnight welfare organisations, Government has said. Some of the organisations have sacrificed innocent children, as they personalise donated items and funds. Addressing members of the public that included Ruoko RwaMwari Children’s Home members during the reunification of 40 children with their relatives at Mt Hampden Primary School yesterday, Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Professor Paul Mavima said Government was faced with a mammoth task of uplifting the economy through revived industries to reduce the number of dependency. The informal children’s home was being by run by six women led by Ms Margaret Kamwaza (50), in a community anchored on illegal brick moulding schemes. Prof Mavima said his Ministry, which is involved in the social protection of the vulnerable, was going to ensure that it blocked unscrupulous organisations from taking advantage of the vulnerable and promote registration and formalisation of straightforward institutions. We applaud the efforts by the six ladies who looked after the welfare of the vulnerable children from the Mt Hampden community, but we encourage them to follow proper procedure during their operations, he said. The department of social development is going to work with the women to help formalise their work and register as a Private Voluntary Organisation (PVO). Prof Mavima said the move to formalise the organisation was going to promote synergies between Government and the voluntary organisations, while at the same time protecting children from various forms of abuse. Able-bodied and youthful members of the society, he said, were supposed to engage in projects to improve the country’s economy and not continuously ask for assistance. Assistance should be sought and availed to vulnerable and orphaned children, disabled and old-aged members of the society, while those that are able, should use their hands to work, he said. Once formalised, the drop-in home is expected to get assistance from Government in sourcing funds and stands from Zvimba Rural District Council, while plans to provide the children with two meals a day and join them under Basic Education Assistance Module (BEAM) are also underway. In her remarks, Minister of State for Provincial Affairs and Devolution for Mashonaland West Mary Mliswa-Chikoka called on the community to avoid domestic disputes that will lead to vulnerability of children and outlined the need for everyone to play a role in taking care of needy children. Our hope is that everyone has the opportunity to improve the lives of children as they are the beneficiaries of the 2030 vision, she said.
Zvimba East legislature, Cde Tawanda Tungamirai, donated a state-of-the-art wheelchair to 36-year-old Mr Patrick Mhinga, while Petrozim Line general manager Mr Peter Masvikeni, whose company supplied 200 blankets, 300 masks and beans, said the gesture was aimed at complementing Government efforts in taking care of the vulnerable.