The Herald Crime Reporter
The Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has deployed officers at Marimba Residential Properties in Harare following reports of public violence and malicious damage to property in the area, as a result of a land wrangle. In a statement yesterday, national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the case and said the officers were deployed to maintain law and order. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police advises the public that in order to maintain law and order following confirmation by the Ministry of Local Government and Public Works and Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water and Rural Resettlement, that Marimba Residential Properties Limited referred to as “Marimba” owns two adjourning pieces of land, that is stand 48 Aspindale Park, a police deployment has been made to maintain law and order,” he said. “Several reports of assaults, public violence, breaches of peace, obstructing of free movement of people and traffic, intimidation and malicious damage to property have been made against those who claimed that they had the right to develop the land and allocate stands.” Asst Comm Nyathi said the responsible ministries and the Registrar of Deeds confirmed that Stand Number 48 was duly owned and registered in the name of Marimba Residential Properties Limited which were the rightful owners. “Members of the public are, therefore, urged to comply with the court orders which have been issued and duly assist in the maintenance of law and order,” he said. “No one should take the law into his or her own hands and disturb those conducting lawful activities at the said properties. “Police will arrest anyone who engages in any form of criminal action.” Marimba Residential Properties has been embroiled in a dispute with five housing co-operatives who are alleged to have been fleecing people of cash after claiming ownership of land in the Aspindale Park area. At the centre of the land wrangle, which pits Joshua Nkomo, Leopold Takawira, Wadzanai, Mydek and Dzapasi housing co-operatives against Marimba Residential Properties was stand Number 48 Aspindale Park Township of subdivision A of Aspindale Park of subdivision A of Lochinvar measuring over 100 hectares. According to reports, they are also fighting over the remaining extent of Salisbury Park of Lochinvar measuring over 80 hectares. In a statement recently, Marimba Residential Properties said they were the rightful owners of Aspindale Park and warned people against losing their cash to the housing co-operatives. The company also expressed concern over land barons and ‘rouge occupiers’ who have been interfering and hindering development in the area by assaulting contractor’s employees.