The Herald AFTER the closure of Zimbabwe Jockey Academy last year, Omeara Rusike, has joined the South African Jockey Academy. Recently, the Zimbabwean female apprentice jockey spoke about her journey. SA Academy (SAA) – How did you get involved in becoming an apprentice? Omeara Rusike (OM) – I got involved in racing in 2015, and this was in December when my dad saw a newspaper advert whilst driving to work. It was about the Zimbabwean Jockey Academy taking in apprentices in 2016. I asked my mom what she thought about it and she agreed with my dad and she gave me her blessings. I went for my first interview with my mom and, within a few days, she received a call from the Academy, that I was accepted, and I should start on the 4th of April 2016. SAA – How long have you had aspirations to become a jockey? OM – I had never been close to a horse and neither did I grow up with horses. I used to watch Black Stallion and climb on my brothers backs and pretend I was on a horse. I wouldn’t say I dreamt of being a jockey but, once I became an apprentice, I got the bug and the dream came alive. SAA – Is there any special traits or requirements one needs for the profession? OM – Somewhere behind the jockey that I have become, is the hours of practice I put in, all the trainers who pushed me to the limits (Mr and Mrs Wright) the hard falls, the crazy horses, the blood and sweat, tears, blisters and everything in between. But, behind all this, is the girl that fell in love with the horses, the sport, the passion and never looked back. Being a jockey is not for the faint-hearted! SAA – How do you keep fit physically and mentally? OM – I have been running long distances ( 8-13 km) on certain days with Mr Wynne one of the riding masters and sometimes we do some sprint sessions apart from that I spend most of my spare time in the gym and with the help of the SAJA team, Chloe and Tarryn Sneyd, they have helped me a lot with my upper body and fitness. Mentally I listen to music and read books as well as practice visualisation which we practiced a lot in Zimbabwe. SAA – Who, if anyone, has inspired you in racing? OM – Michelle Payne has inspired me … she won the Melbourne Cup and I just said to myself if she can do it, why not me. She just made it look easier to be a jockey. SA – Who is your favorite jockey and why? OM – Hollie Doyle because she has good temperament and she has achieved most of the things I myself would like to achieve as well in future. I also look up to jockeys like Pierre Strydom and Lyle Hewiston – SAHracing.com