The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
FOOTBALLERS Union of Zimbabwe have challenged ZIFA to come up with strategies which can directly benefit footballers. This comes at a time many have been reduced into paupers in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. With domestic football activities on hold, since March, players are finding it difficult to sustain themselves and their families. “The basic ingredient to football is the footballer,’’ said FUZ secretary-general, Thomas Sweswe. “There are so many difficulties which the footballers are encountering. “We do appreciate that ZIFA are disbursing what they are getting from FIFA but we are of the view that our association, being the supreme football controlling body in the country, can do more. “ZIFA can engage stakeholders, and corporates, to come up with a strategy that helps players directly. “Players are in a difficult situation. Imagine some of them are in Harare yet they are paying rentals in Bulawayo where their teams are based. “Some are based in Triangle at the moment but they are paying rentals in Harare. “They are complaining to us every day.’’ FUZ are currently finalising a wide-ranging survey they have been conducting with players – from juniors, female and senior players – on the challenges they are facing during this difficult period. Their findings have largely pointed to the fact the players are in dire situation. “It is really hard for the players. Salaries cannot sustain them. We have conducted a survey on their well-being, their families, background, level of education, among many other facets, to which we have noted with grave concern that all is not well,’’ said Sweswe. “We will have a detailed report on that but Covid-19 has brought about a lot of suffering to the players. “You will find out that some players were planning to retire at the end of this year but they don’t even know what will happen. “In terms of their emotional welfare, it is just something else. “They are battered and we have tried to come up with our own strategies, encouraging them to enrol for online courses and we are glad most of them have taken heed of that.” FUZ had been engaged by PSL to help iron out issues to do with expired player contracts. “We are still engaging with the PSL, and some clubs, over the issue of contracts,’’ he said. “You will find that there are a lot of clubs which have not paid players their signing-on fees. “Some clubs are not even paying salaries to the players. “In those circumstances, it becomes very difficult for us to reach an agreement with both the player and the club(s) involved. “We need to look at the rules and regulations. I should say others have been paying salaries to their players. “So, it now becomes an issue which has to be taken on a case-by-case basis rather than give it a blanket treatment.’’ 