The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor IMAGINE Nyasha Mushekwi returning to the domestic Premiership in 2027, exactly 17 years after he left CAPS United to embark on his global tour, and winning the Golden Boot in his comeback season? Or, Khama Billiat coming back to the Green Machine in 2030, exactly 20 years after he crossed the Limpopo in search of football’s El Dorado, and winning the Golden Boot that season? Maybe, let’s say, Knowledge Musona, returning home to have a fling with the domestic Premiership in 2030, and ending up as the league’s top goal scorer? Or, Tino Kadewere returning home in 2036, at the end of his Euro adventure, and winning the Golden Boot in his comeback season on the domestic scene? Well, something like that, which can be described as a football miracle, could happen in the Zambian Super Division in the next two days. A 40-year-old Zambian footballer, James Chamanga, could win the Golden Boot award when Zambia’s top-flight league comes to a premature end tomorrow. He is the same age as former Zimbabwe international midfielder, Esrom Nyandoro, who retired from football in 2014 after making more than 200 appearances for South African champions Mamelodi Sundowns. When one considers Nyandoro was being voted the Supa Diski Rookie of the Year, as far back as 2004, and even went on trials at English Premiership side Sheffield United, two years later, a picture emerges of how far Chamanga has travelled. And, the veteran forward, who was part of the triumphant Chipolopolo side which won the AFCON title in Gabon eight years ago, is still going strong back home in Zambia. This is a league which has attracted a considerable number of Zimbabwean footballers, of late, with its clubs flexing their financial muscle to bring in foreign players from as far afield as Ghana. And, when the individual awards are handed out at the end of the season, it’s likely that 40-year-old Chamanga would be one of the stars of the occasion. The ageless forward has 15 league goals, in the colours of Red Arrows, and leads the race for the Golden Boot, going into the final matches of the season today and tomorrow. Red Arrows complete their campaign with an away match against Tafadzwa Rusike’s Zesco United who have a chance to be crowned champions should they won while Nkana and Napsa Stars fail to secure victories in their final assignments. “The Zambia Super League Golden Boot race could possibly go down to the final day of the season, just like the title, with the five players firmly in the race to win it,’’ the Zambian Daily Mail reported yesterday. “James Chamanga and Baba Basile are the two players leading the race, while Idris Mbombo, Roger Kola and Jesse are not so far off either. “By his own admission, James Chamanga does not have his mind hinged on the Golden Boot race but just wants to help the team achieve a good finish before he can look forward to moving forward to other clubs. “But his exploits this season have placed him well in line to clinch the award. “His goal against Nkana in Saturday’s match at Nkoloma Stadium meant he had now drawn level with Basile on top of the scoring charts. “It was a striker’s touch, running away from his defenders in a dead ball situation as he created space behind the Nkana defence leaving the visitors’ goalkeeper Alain Ngeleka watching the ball as he picked the right hand corner of the goal to double Red Arrows’ lead.’’ Already, despite the campaign being brought to a premature end because of challenges related to run it under the Covid-19 complications, will see a better goal return among the leading scorers. Last season, the Golden Boot winners — Laudit Mavugo, Austin Muwowo and Zikiru Adams — scored 10 goals each. Chamanga has come a long way since making his international debut on 26 February, 2005, against Botswana and scoring his first international goal, a few months later, in the COSAFA Cup semi-finals against South Africa. He was one of the most vocal footballers who were calling for the league to be restarted after it was brought to a halt in March because of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The league must continue because I’m second on the top scorers chart and winning the Golden Boot would be good for my CV and that of my Club Red Arrows,’’ he told the Lusaka Sun back then. “I would rather finish the league if possible in the quickest way possible. “Forest have a chance to win the league, but they will have to work hard for it. Napsa have done very well also so we should to find a way in which we can finish it.’’ The veteran forward said he was unhappy that no Zambian forward had won the Golden Boot, for four seasons, and had come out of retirement to show the new generation how it should be done. Twelve years ago, he won the Golden Boot in the South African Premiership while playing for Moroka Swallows before moving to China where he played more than 100 league games for Dalian Shide. Two years ago, his career appeared to have ended when his Chinese club, Liaoning Hongyun, announced he would become their technical director. “After the club and James jointly decided to decide, from now on, James will no longer represent the first team to play in the League,’’ the club said. “As a meritorious foreign aid, James will enter the management of the club and serve as the Technical Director of the club, continuing to contribute to the Liaoning Football Club. “James joined Liaoning Hongyun Football Club in 2013. In more than five years, James played 104 games for the Liaoning Hongyun team and scored 41 goals. “He is the first foreigner to hit the over 100 games mark and his 41 goals will go down in the history of Liaozu. “In the past two seasons, James’ playing time has continued to decline due to injuries. “However, in daily training and competitions, James still has a dedication to work for the team. “James’ sense of responsibility and professionalism have earned the team’s height. Recognition and praise.’’