The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta plans on using Willian in a central position next season after the Brazilian completes his move to the English Premiership football club from Chelsea. The 32-year-old departed Stamford Bridge this week after seven years in west London. The Brazilian was predominantly used as a right winger at Chelsea, despite playing under five different managers during his time at the club. However, Willian’s always felt that he was used incorrectly at Chelsea and that his best position is in a more central role behind a centre forward. Arteta clearly agrees and the Spaniard plans on using Willian in a No.10 role next term. While the length of Arsenal’s offer is believed to have been the key driver of Willian’s move to the Emirates, Arteta’s plans for him have clearly influenced his thinking and he’ll at long last get to star in a central role that he has craved. Willian is set to sign a three-year deal with the club. The winger was reportedly in north London on Monday to complete his medical with the Gunners and the club are likely to announce his arrival later this week. Willian will become Arteta’s first signing of the summer but the Spaniard may have to sell before spending any money. The likes of Sead Kolasinac, Rob Holding, Mesut Ozil, Matteo Guendouzi, Calum Chambers and Ainsley Maitland-Niles have all been put up for sale. Arsenal failed to qualify for the Champions League for the fourth season running and they announced in February — before the coronavirus pandemic hit sport — a loss in operating profit. Arteta reportedly made a special request to the Arsenal board to sign Willian. And it seems the Gunners manager got his wish, as the Brazilian has reportedly undergone his medical in north London, after confirming on Sunday he is leaving Chelsea. Arteta is keen to strengthen his Arsenal side this summer but must do so with limited funds. The club have been linked with such stars as Philippe Coutinho, Thomas Partey and Willian in recent months, with the latter the priority. According to The Telegraph, Arteta made a special request to the Arsenal board, and asked them to “specifically” sign Willian, despite his age. The Spaniard is said to be a big fan of the 32-year-old,      and strongly believes that he will improve his Arsenal team next season. The Evening Standard has reported this Monday that Willian has now completed his medical at Arsenal, and will soon pen a three year deal worth £150 000-a-week. Willian said goodbye to Chelsea after seven years in a statement on Sunday. It read: “They were seven wonderful years. “In August 2013 when I received the offer from Chelsea, I was convinced that this was where I had to play. Today I am certain that it was the best of decisions. There were no many happy times, some sad, there were trophies and it was always very intense. “Yet, beyond the trophies, I learnt a lot about myself. I developed a great deal, becoming a better player and a better person. With each training session, with each game, with every minute spent in the dressing room, I was always learning.’’ — Metro.