The Herald Selmah Mbakureva Midlands State University
Many university student’s lives have been turned into a living hell because of the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Higher and Tertiary students are finding it hard to attend the online lectures. The major reason contributing to missing these lectures is access to bundles. A lot of students are finding it hard to obtain bundles to attend online lectures. Some students are conducting their practical lectures online and these consume a lot of data. Students are therefore not able to conduct practicals in detail because they would have already exhausted the afforded bundles. Data bundles continue to skyrocket whereas lecturers do not stop teaching, causing many students to miss important information. Some lecturers have opted for WhatsApp which has been verified to be the cheapest platform to conduct lectures, however, not all students attend these lectures since some do not have required gadgets to be on WhatsApp. Network problem is another barrier which has caused students to miss their lectures. Network interruptions for hours in some places result in a few students attending lectures. The online lectures are disadvantaging mainly those who live in remote areas. Therefore when the pandemic is over and everything is back to its rightful place, lecturers should bear with every student on assignment submissions and attendance of lectures among others because not every student is attending these lectures due to several factors. *****  Lizelle Kimberly Kariati Midlands State University The media industry in Zimbabwe should be applauded for empowering and emancipating women. The need to be heard and seen saw women campaigning and fighting for their rights to be recognised. It’s good that these efforts have not been in vain. The media is a voice for the voiceless. It is a powerful and useful tool in disseminating messages that need to be conveyed to the generality of society. It’s a relief that women are also taking part in voicing out their opinions and contributing positively to society. The appointment of Minister Monica Mutsvangwa to head the Ministry of lnformation, Publicity and Broadcasting Services, is a clear indication of how Zimbabwe’s leaders are working hard to ensure that women occupy positions of authority. Her performance shows that what men can do, women can also do. For a long time, the music industry has been male-dominated but recently tables have turned as women now share the spotlight with men. *****  Tafadzwa Madimbu Midlands State University This so-called “21st century” has caused the young generation to abandon their customs and valued traditions, adopting a Western culture based on movies and music videos. The internet has played a crucial role in influencing youths.  They no longer value themselves, taking their bodies for granted unlike what our elders did back in their days. Among other things, unprotected sex has become a norm for every youth and what’s most puzzling is to hear of children aged 14 years indulging in sexual activities. Today’s youths are more afraid of contacting pregnancy than they are of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) and for that reason sex at university has become the new norm. For prevention of pregnancy there is the availability of morning after pills, contraceptive injections and family planning pills. Morning after pills are encouraging university students to indulge in unprotected sex without considering the risks. These pills they are readily available on campuses from student colleagues. Selling of morning after pills has become a hugely profitable business as indulging in unprotected sex is a daily occurrence, thus creating a vast pool and availability of customers. The other problem is that students will not only be involved with one sexual partner but several multiple partners, thereby increasing the spread of sexually transmitted infections. Due to the economic hardships the rest of the country is experiencing, some female students are getting involved with older men, who provide them with money and meet their other immediate needs. It is common knowledge that these “blessers” do not use protection. The same female students have boyfriends on campus and will also be having unprotected sex with them. University life is full of experiments — learning new things or trying out new things — and sex is one of the things they experiment with. One makes it his or her ambition to have liaisons with several partners every semester with some even having a “to-do-list” of the things they wish to accomplish, especially where sex is involved. These liaisons only help in increasing the spread of STIs. ***** Nkosana Khumalo, Midlands State University A celebrity is a person who is well known or gets attention from a lot of people on a regular basis. Due to digitalisation, being in the spotlight is something that most teenagers wish for as they are exposed to the lifestyle of the rich and famous. A quick perusal of Facebook and Instagram, shows most accounts are branded influencer if not musician or artist. People admire the life of celebrities or well-known socialites. It should be noted that being a celebrity has many pros and cons. A celebrity mindset is therefore a way of living which allows individuals to practise whatever career they wish, hence developing passion and desire towards that goal. Most people view themselves as celebrities in order to gain power, influence and self-growth. There has been a great change in teenagers. Due to digitalisation, everyone wants to be a trendsetter/influencer as it is considered “cool” and a big achievement hence the new toys are now cameras and microphones. Most teens are easily stressed by things such as likes, comments and followers. It is quite clear that time is constantly changing, the number of followers one has on Instagram is slowly becoming more important than what one is having for breakfast, lunch or supper. A decade or so ago, a child with a laptop had fruity loops on it and aspired to be a disc jockey (DJ) or musician. Well  people now take pictures on a regular  basis not to print them out but to post them on social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, and sometimes twitter which is quite contrary  to the old days where pictures taken would be black and white and also printed and put in a picture album or somewhere safe. Pictures then, had greater significance as they were not edited unlike today where the setting, quality and dressing matters more than the memories made. The youth are the future, therefore, as a concerned citizen this article has been written in order to inspire youths to appreciate that what we see is not always what we get. Being a celeb comes with a cost. It may take away personal freedom, time, money, privacy and even self-confidence as media can either make or break an individual. Therefore, there is need for one to think carefully before making a decision to be a public figure. Every single little decision should be well thought out. For example, a simple walk to the shops may cause a lot of havoc or impact greatly on one’s career and life. During a simple walk to the shops one might come across encounters that an average human being wouldn’t normally face. The internet has therefore impacted greatly on our lives as almost everything can easily be found online. Life without it would probably be meaningless.