The Herald Stories by Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle Reporter
Food is identity and it has a way of speaking to people regardless of their race, creed and geographical location. This explains the importance of a professional chef or in the worst case scenario a catering team at all functions ranging from parties, funerals or any celebration of some sort. As many embrace global standards and think eating healthy in the face of many food related illnesses, the idea of hiring a professional chef has become even more topical at many event planning meetings with the private chef concept fast taking the world by storm. One such celebrated private chef is Mizpah Bore known in her food industry as “Chef on Duty” who has cooked for prominent names in her native Zimbabwe as well neighbouring South Africa where she is now based. But what makes her tick as she has instantly become a celebrity overnight on social media. Saturday Herald Lifestyle caught up with the 29-year-old chef who shared her story. “Though I came to cooking later in my career, I am very passionate about this industry. My greatest moments are when I had to cook for the South African Minister of Social Development Lindiwe Zulu, Australian High Commission; Botswana Embassy as well as high end Zimbabwean meets Nigerian weddings. I have also cooked for some prominent people like the Mutarisi, Nzarayapenga, Mashwede, and Muzanenhamo families to name a few,” she said. The easy going food enthusiast started off as an accountant at her family business immediately after completing her education. She honed her culinary skills after she got inspiration and encouragement to pursue her dreams from a close friend who at that time was a chef at a leading institute. “I started off as an accountant for the family business before a friend pointed me in the food industry business. I then developed a knack for cooking well-known local dishes with a twist and I gained a reputation of combining acutely seasonal items with quietly elegant technique,” she said. “Our Chef on Duty brand offers a unique a truly special private chef experience brought directly to you. Combining a personal chef hire service with restaurant quality cuisine, Chef on Duty is affordable, accessible and easy to book. Bore said she presents a menu inspired by personal stories and told through my seasonal offerings. “We have a combination of ingredients at their peak of flavour paired with a creative mind and innovative techniques which results in a truly unique culinary experience,” she said. Also unique about the young business lady’s way of doing things is that she doesn’t offer a traditional dining experience. “Guests are encouraged to get out of their seats, see the action, take pictures, and get to know the chef. The kitchen is steps from your table and seating is communal, offering diners the opportunity to connect with fellow food and drink enthusiasts. Bore is also celebrated for her ability to bringing a unique dining experience right into one’s home instead of one going to a restaurant. “I am a private chef who prepares and cooks for clients in their homes home or accommodation. Unlike in a restaurant where the chefs cater for a large number of different groups of people, a personal chef is catering specifically for you, the customer who booked them, and your guests and this gives our clients a personalised experience and service. Our goal is to meet the needs and requirements of the client’s event in the comfort and surroundings of their home. We also do all the shopping, service and clearing away and this is why we call it a private chef experience,” explained the ever smiling chef. Not content with merely stimulating plates, Bore aims to stimulate minds as well, by offering some cooking lessons to beginners. When she is not cooking, or writing her cook-book, or working on her brand, the Bore attends food conferences, and other business related events, where she states and stimulates her endless culinary curiosity. “I love to interact with people hence I sometimes attends workshops and trainings so I equip myself,” she said. While her South African side of business is fast taking shape, Bore said the local branch is still functional with other chefs she has taught, although she is running the South African branch. “We remain operational in Zimbabwe but expanding to South Africa is designed to reach out to a new group of customers. Although I already have a well-mined customer base in Zimbabwe, there is always the opportunity to add new customers. This expansion has typically given me the opportunity to offer a diverse range of products and services. In doing so, I am able to diversify my revenue stream, which means that I am not exclusively reliant on selling one core product or service. Expanding into the SA markets also creates the opportunity for greater brand recognition for Chef on Duty,” Bore said. The firebrand chef also revealed that the South African venture has also become a viable business prudence undertaking as it is helping cushion local operations given the generally difficult environment “The Zimbabwean side of the business is still very much running. I am inoculating my business from a downward trend in bookings by offsetting those losses with the new market earnings, helping to ensure that my business will survive if the demand for my services decreases due to the pandemic,” The young chef also intimated on her plans to open her own place that allows her to explore her full potential while tapping into all possible ventures relating to food and cooking industry. “My long term plan is to open a place of my own where I have full creative and managerial control. “This will give me full range of responsibilities beyond simply cooking. I’ll be expected to manage the books, handle payroll and oversee the performance of my staff.  In addition, I see my next project fully functioning. A lot of people in Zimbabwe cook at home but most are On-the-go, busy and working. They barely have time to cook dinner, let alone shop for food groceries. Any avid chef knows fresh ingredients make the best meals. I am working on an App that an individual can order ingredients for a particular meal and have those ingredients home-delivered, saving time and receiving the best ingredients. Nothing says fresh, healthy and local like a farm-to-table meal. What more, owning this farm-to-table App will help support local farmers, thereby strengthening the community through the love of healthy, fresh foods,” she said. Traditionally, hiring a private chef was something reserved for the super-rich.  While we have all probably heard of a private chef, sometimes called a personal chef; most people have never booked or experienced one and Bore said she hoped to correct this anomaly through her brand “One of the key motivations here for Bore is to make the hiring of a private chef quick, easy and accessible to everyone and as such we want to make the booking of a personal chef a genuine alternative to eating out, hence our  ‘Bringing the Restaurant to you’ tag line. In order to do this, it’s important for us to educate people on what a private chef is, how the service works and most importantly that this experience is now available and it’s easy to hire a chef for anyone across the Southern Africa Region,” she said. The chef on duty also shared that the food industry was a big hit for professionals who invest their time and resources into ensuring a quality and affordable service for clientele. “The food industry is viable but one needs to become a trusted brand before they can reap the rewards. My advice is that you must become highly knowledgeable about your service, product or invention and your potential market. “Take advantage of books, online resources, training opportunities and education when and wherever possible. However, understand that your body of knowledge comes from diverse sources including,” she said. Asked what her favourite menu is, she says she loves the Western chicken but eating was her biggest challenge in her career. “A hearty West African-inspired stew of chicken thighs and legs, sweet potatoes and peanuts that is my favourite. I really love my kitchen and any other guests kitchen I work from time, the main challenge I face as a chef is eating. I understand it is funny to a lot of people but eating can be a real challenge after spending the time in kitchen playing with oils and the food aromas,” she said. However Bore cited patriarchy as a major set back for women in business. “Funding to capitalise the business, a business reserved for the high end and sometimes it is difficult to penetrate the market. “Perception issues as not everyone takes our art as job has affected us as chef,” she said.