The Herald Fashion 263 Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Just another sunny week has passed, well the summer fashion vibes are coming out. So, I was chatting with my colleague the other day when he came to the office wearing a blue checked blazer which matched his sky-blue shirt and a plain tie of different colour. At first he thought he had committed a crime by pairing the same colours and somehow he looked puzzled and not confident enough but I reminded him that with fashion, the world is your runway. Be confident in whatever you are wearing as long you are very comfortable. I told him that stripes items mean — ‘notice me’. He laughed. I bumped into another lady wearing a dress with a stripe pattern and oh boy, if it was at night,one would scream thinking it was a flashing ghost. I then noticed that of all the views of dressing well, ‘do not clash patterns’ seems like one that should always hold water. It is a bit weird or rather difficult to play around with prints and patterns when it comes to being stylish? Some define the dressing as discord, while others prefer to use those ‘lines’ stripes to accentuate their height and weight. Fashion has rules. The debate of stripes and plaids has been there since time memorial. Wearing stripes and other patterns like plaid, checkers, or flannel together is not only acceptable, but it is trending. The pattern is much popular this season and you just need to know a few steps or guidelines when wearing such stripes or checkers so that you do not end up looking like a clown. “I personally think that this combination has always looked good. You need to know that men are not made to a pattern but clothes are which is why something that looks great on social media does not always sit right when you try exactly the same outfit on at home. “Different details accentuate and hide different aspects of the body beneath. To look your best, you need clothes that work with your physique, rather than fight it. Stripes are the in thing and the best way is to check with your stylist if you are of the affluent side or be guided by the fashion rules,” said fashionista Naomi Ratidzai of NamRa brand. However, here are some rules for pairing stripes and patterns according to Philippe Perzi Vienna who are popularly known for their striped shirts which made a hit in the United States when Bill Clinton was president: ◆ Make sure the stripes and plaid are around the same size. You can go for big stripes with big plaid and small stripes with small plaid. ◆ If you decide to wear two striped items, make sure they are different in size thus thick and thin. ◆ Bigger and bolder patterns are definitely going to make you look bigger, and horizontal patterns are going to give off a wider look. Just know that the vertical patterns are going to give off a taller, thinner appearance. For ladies all you need to do is to pair your striped dress or shirt or skirt with fun accessories such as jewellery or jean jackets. You also need to know that everything depends on the occasion, as you can wear a striped dress to the office, as well as to the weekend’s parties and even church thus when the lockdown is over. Another tip is that, if you want that chic, classy look, wear your striped dress with sneakers, by this look you can have so much fun with this style. I know one fashion icon, Hollywood Lee, for a casual day-off, she loves wearing a tank midi dress in black-white stripes completing the look with a straw wide-brim hat, caged sandals and a denim jacket tied around the waist.