The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 Saturday is the most wonderful day of the week because it is the day when most people are free to do whatever they love the most. And it being a sunny day, summer vibes have already started, although we are still under lockdown, but that does not mean we do not dress up. Fashion is about trends and who still remembers ‘shorts and mini-skirts’. The trend which had gone because of winter, is now back. Women have already jumped the gun, always ahead as they are seen either wearing a mini-skirt or a short. If you are a fan of shorts, this is the right time to be seen wearing one. The only problem comes on how you wear one, and styling the same type of apparel can get tiresome, as shorts need proper tops. From denim to linen shorts, you still need to know a few things so that you will not be mistaken for a caddy while walking on the streets. You do not need going into the office wearing one the wrong way. Some institutions by the way do not allow shorts on casual Fridays. In an interview, celebrity stylist Shyleen Chimedza of 4 May International men’s clothing shop said wearing shorts on the other hand, can seem like a fashion black hole. “What you need to know is that shorts are comfortable, versatile, and cool, especially in the hot summer months,” she said. “I know shorts are trendy, but is it suitable to rock a pair of camo-print cargo shorts to the office? Can you pull off that pair of daisy dukes?” Shyleen shared tips on women and shorts, what to consider when buying shorts and how to be stylish. ◆ You need to buy shorts that will flatter your figure. ◆ You need to consider your height as well. Longer shorts create the impression of shorter legs, while short shorts lengthen the leg, giving the impression of height. Play it safe. Surprisingly, women of most heights can find stylish and flattering shorts that hit around the mid-thigh. ◆ You should consider the fitting. Shorts that flare out toward the bottom, rather than hugging the thigh, are flattering for petite girls and curvy women alike. Long styles like mid-thigh shorts or bermudas are best, while taller women might find longer shorts more appropriate. ◆ Nevertheless, shorts have to be clean to look stylish. I would advise you to look for shorts that have clean, straight lines. ◆ Some say that the large pockets on cargo pockets tend to draw attention to women’s hips and thighs and instead, opt for shorts in fun bright colours, or with floral patterns. ◆ Dark-coloured shorts are also slimming and can look both casual and sophisticated paired with the right shoes. You can also try picking print shorts with a print that is small and spaced close together. ◆ If you are a floral person, you need to know that tropical floral print shorts are fun and flashy, but they need a sleeveless top so that it is only about them. ◆ I remember my aunt telling my cousin sisters that you should wear shorts that are reasonably short. While wearing short-shorts will elongate your legs and make them look longer, it is not always the most appropriate look for all occasions and is sometimes smarter to opt for a more conservative approach to the length of the shorts. ◆ Rule of thumb regarding length: Nothing but your legs should be sticking out from the bottom of your shorts. This goes for the pockets of jean shorts, underwear and anything else your shorts cover.