The Herald Fashion 263
ONE Monday morning, I had a debate with my immediate bosses after the other wore a blue checked blazer with a striped tie. Well that look was ‘English’ like Johnny goes to the boardroom. The fashion rule states that stripe and stripe do not mix but you can get away with that. He broke the law but anyway who says fashion rules can’t be broken? I decided to cool off the debate, not that I respected his age, but he looked confident and comfortable in his jacket. Fashion lessons can be learned from different sources no matter the age. The following day, I then decided to wear the checked jacket and a checked shirt, boom, I was the king, like Ralph Lauren walking on Manhattan streets. Back to the wardrobe, last week we focused on women and shorts and promised to continue today focusing on men. According to Esquire, men’s shorts are aggressively shifting into commonplace attire — both in the workplace and out. It is summer and this is a trend not to miss but there are factors to consider though. It is awkward, in some firms to report for duty in your shorts. But should gentlemen wear shorts to work? Where and when can one shorts? A survey conducted by Yours Truly, turns out, there are a lot of opinions on the matter. Here is what you should consider before heading out in shorts. Shorts are fine if you get them right as they have to look purposeful and intentional. In a casual environment, they should fit properly — not too baggy, just above the knee — and probably not have any cargo pockets on them. If you decide to wear one, make sure they do not offend the opposite sex. “Of course, when it comes to capital “F” Fashion Statements, the rules go out the window,” once mentioned Jonathan Evans, a senior style editor. Back to reality, men should wear the right cut. Shorts should be neither too long nor too short. The hem of appropriately-cut shorts should fall just above the knee when standing up straight, and should not be more than an inch or two higher when you are seated. Prominent fashionista Craig Twist stresses a point that leave your weekend shorts to the weekend. “There is nothing wrong with wearing those old soccer shorts, while you are sitting around the house watching a game, or keeping on the ratty old cargo shorts you have had since high school while you do the laundry. No shame. But even if the weather gets hot, don’t wear them going to work,” he said. In some areas, short jean shorts, also known as ‘jorts’, are becoming popular, while elsewhere extra-long baggy shorts that hang below the knee are stylish. If you are curious about whether or not you can pull off either of these ;  it is probably a safe bet to go traditional and leave the experiments to the trend-setters. Note to be taken care of is that wear the same waist size as your trousers and use a belt. Twist also said that shorts should sit on your hips normally, like jeans or trousers. “Always wear an appropriate belt when you wear shorts. Other than looking professional, shorts have a tendency to sag that you want to avoid. Keep your underwear under your shorts and make sure you have got a belt on,” he added. Another aspect on shorts is that they must be clean, pressed and colourful since we are in summer. For those who love khaki shorts, you can pair them well with casual shirts or t-shirts. When in doubt, go for mute colours. Beige, gray, navy, and black shorts will always be in style. Mr Poter site also highlighted that the bright pink pair you picked up for a picnic outing with your girlfriend might spend a lot of time at the back of the closet. If you wear cargo shorts, aim for the smallest possible pocket, in inverse proportion to your age.