The Herald Herald Reporter
THE Pan African Forum (UK) has castigated fake news on Zimbabwe, saying a report by the African Union Commission (AUC) alleging human rights abuses in Zimbabwe is based on lies. In a statement dubbed “Stop intimidating the Government of Zimbabwe: Get facts not fake stories”, the chairperson of the PAF (UK) Dr David Nyekorach-Matsanga said the AUC narrative was based on fake and doctored media reports that had been stage-managed by imperialists. “On August 7, 2020, the chairperson of the African Union Commission (AUC), Moussa Faki Mahamat issued a statement regarding the alleged situation in Zimbabwe. The AUC narrative is based on fake and doctored media reports that have been stage managed by malcontents with imperial flavour,” Dr Matsanga said. “On behalf of Pan African Forum (UK), I would like to fully support the Government of President Mnangagwa in the handling of the situation. We fully support the Government of Zimbabwe and we stand together against the US’ violent regime change mechanisms,” he said. He said the alleged human rights abuses and the political developments in Zimbabwe were fake and exaggerated by political opponents using old pictures to lie to the Western media that has been against Zimbabwe since 1997. “The AUC Chairperson is a sleep walker in Africa on African affairs and makes decisions based on external forces’ guidelines. In 2019, the same AUC asked AU member states not to recognise the DRC elections and not to attend the swearing-in ceremony in Kinshasa.” He said there were human rights abusers who had not attracted the same attention across the continent. “We note that there are worse human rights abusers on the continent. The AUC chair is using fake reports from MDC opposition that have performed fake abductions and made false accusations against the Zimbabwe Government,” said Dr Matsanga. There was plenty of freedom of assembly, freedom of association and the right to information which Zimbabwe had upheld as seen by many journalists and media houses publishing without censorship. Dr Matsanga said PAF (UK) Ltd had over 20 cadres and senior journalists based in Zimbabwe who had reported that there were no violations of human rights in Zimbabwe.