The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter EMOTIONS ran high yesterday as football legends George Shaya and David Mandigora put aside their disability and joined Sunday Chidzambwa in a charity pitch walk at Raylton Sports Club. The three legends sent out a strong message that if people are united they will fight, and conquer, the pandemic which has devastated the world. Both Shaya and Mandigora had parts of their legs amputated. Shaya, regarded by some as the greatest footballer to come out of this country, walked 50m, using his walking aid. Mandigora walked with the assistance of his crutches. Chidzambwa completed a total of 5kms walking 50 times from one goalpost to another. At times, he was accompanied by former players such as Joel Luphahla, Stewart Murisa, former Black Rhinos chairman Elgebert Rugeje and Dynamos player Emmanuel Jalai. Some Dynamos and Warriors fans also joined the proceedings. Chidzambwa’s daughter, Nomalanga, also graced the occasion, supporting her father, and accompanied him during some of the laps. After completing the distance, the veteran coach said he was always confident he would finish the 5km walk. “I was sure I would complete the five kilometres. I have been training and walking the distance for the past few weeks,’’ he said. “I would like to thank everyone for coming to grace this occasion. I was inspired by Tim Moore and l thought why can’t I do it here? “If we don’t do it, no one will do it for us. “I shared the walk with Shaya and Mandigora. Our relationship with Yogi dates back when we used to share a room during Dynamos camp. “He is my younger brother, just like Misheck “My wish is that we win our fight against this disease, l believe we have done our part and the frontline workers will do their part, we leave everything in the hands of the God.’’ The legendary coach encouraged people to adhere to health regulations. “I wonder why most people say they are wearing masks, when they are going out, so that they don’t get arrested,’’ he said. “You don’t wear masks for the police but you would be preventing yourself from the virus. “So, let’s follow all the regulations from World Health Organisation, and the police, it is our lives that need to be protected.’’ After the walk, Shaya said it was quite an exercise for him to walk the 50m but was happy Chidzambwa came up with such a good idea and even invited him to be part of it. “I am tired,’’ he said. “This is a good gesture to assist health workers and it’s a worthy cause. We should not wait for help from other countries but we must also play our part. “Let’s keep fighting, we will beat the disease. Anyone can get the virus so we need to be careful and follow the regulations all the time.’’ Mandigora commended his friend for coming up with the initiative. “I thank Sunday, who invited us to come and support him. We hope the funds raised will go a long way in assisting the rural frontline workers,’’ he said. “If we unite, the way we united today, we will conquer since this virus requires discipline.’’ Companies such as Omni Contact, Spot On Recoveries and Click and Pay Zimbabwe were the partners which came on board. The event organisers said they were still working on the figures and the crowd funding lines remain open. They will have another charity walk in Bulawayo, which will be curtain-raised by Bulawayo legends like Ndumiso Gumede, Ernest Sibanda and Gibson Homela. Veteran football commentator, Charles “CNN’’ Mabika, was the director of occasion at yesterday’s function.