The Herald Conrad Mupesa Mash West Bureau
CHINHOYI Municipality, which renamed six of its streets in honour of six of the seven pioneers of the liberation struggle last year, has received praises from war veterans and residents for the act. The seven fighters, who were the first to engage in combat with Rhodesian soldiers, were Godfrey Dube, David Guzuzu, Arthur Maramba, Godwin Manyerenyere, Simon Chimboza, Chubby Savana and Christopher Chatambudza. They all died in the battle just outside Chinhoyi town in 1966 after heavy gunfire. Christopher Chatambudza, who commandeered the group, was the first to be honoured after the street between Seven Heroes Government Buildings and Chinhoyi council offices was named after him. The other six were honoured later, with North Drive being renamed after Godfrey Dube, Midway after Guzuzu, Park Street after Maramba, Montrose after Manyerenyere, Commercial Street after Chimboza and Masonic after Savana. Council spokesperson Tichaona Mlauzi said renaming of the streets, which was in line with Chinhoyi’s quest for city status, was done in conjunction with the Department of Museum and Monument as an honour to the late heroes. Zanu PF’s provincial administrator and liberation war fighter, Cde Fanny Chikomba, said renaming of the streets in honour of the seven heroes was in line with the Constitution. “Our Constitution reserves the right to honour and respect fallen heroes as espoused under section 23 and renaming of the seven streets by Chinhoyi Municipality in honour of the fallen heroes is commendable,” he said. Cde Chikomba said the renaming of the streets had helped to preserve the history of the pioneers of the liberation struggle. Residents told The Herald that the renaming of the streets in honour of the fallen heroes was long overdue. “The move by council to rename the streets in honour of the fallen seven will help to teach and remind both school-going-children and the old about the 1966 battle which gave birth to the Second Chimurenga,” a Chinhoyi resident, Mr Allan Kachasu, said. Other residents said there was need to rename schools after the seven fallen heroes. Chinhoyi still has some schools bearing colonial names like Sinoia Primary School, which is the town’s colonial name.