The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Kaizer Chiefs will be aiming for the perfect start to life inside the Premier Soccer League’s bio-bubble when they take on Bidvest Wits in an Absa Premiership clash at Orlando Stadium this evening. Kick-off is at 6pm. Chiefs, who have Zimbabwe internationals, Khama Billiat and Willard Katsande, on their books are in pole position for the league title. The Amakhosi entered the nationwide lockdown with a four-point lead atop the league standings but with defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns breathing down their neck, the club can’t afford to rest on their laurels as they set their sights on Premiership glory. Chiefs fell to a 0-1 loss to AmaZulu in their most recent league outing and can’t afford any further slip ups if they are to keep Sundowns at arm’s length. “All of us, the technical team and, especially, the players want to have the games, they want to have the competitive season going on in the final stages and we are very happy and, hopefully, well prepared to start again on Wednesday against Bidvest Wits,” Chiefs head coach Ernst Middendorp said. “We approached our preparation in perhaps a little bit of a different way. “At the beginning of July I was aware about it (the season restart) and I know there are competent people in this PSL working on it. “It would not have been possible to start (training) on July 4 and then have two weeks training sessions to start on July 18. “We approached it in a way that said we would gradually build up and have a focus-point, which was August 14, over six weeks, where we decided what was responsible when working with the players to give them the right basics and fundamentals. Starting two days earlier than originally planned, we can deal with it and I believe the players have so far worked hard. Everybody is available.” It will be Bidvest Wits’ second game post lockdown following their 3-2 Nedbank Cup loss to Mamelodi Sundowns at the very same venue last weekend. Clever Boys head coach, Gavin Hunt, believes that having already played a game will play into his team’s favour, as they kick-off a run of nine league fixtures in 25 days with a tough clash against the league leaders. “Well, the only good thing about playing Kaizer Chiefs is that we have three days and all the other games will be two days. “So, you know we have a little bit of mileage in our legs now,” Hunt said. Players to watch: Kaizer Chiefs Willard Katsande: With George Maluleka having already completed his move to Mamelodi Sundowns, Katsande’s importance to Chiefs’ cause has amplified. The Zimbabwe international made a name for himself on social media during lockdown and will need that same energy on the field against a Wits side who showcased a lot of attacking intent over the weekend. Katsande will be tasked with breaking down attacking moves and will have his hands full against the likes of Cole Alexander, Phathutshedzo Nange and Haashim Domingo in the Clever Boys midfield. Bidvest Wits Deon Hotto: The Namibia international is one of the league’s best players on his day and with Terrence Dzvukamanja an injury doubt — having hobbled off against Sundowns — Hotto will have an important role to play. The winger is not only a goal scorer but a goal provider too and has shown in the past what he can do against Chiefs. — BackPagetxt