The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Gospel artiste Gloria Mutombodzi who is based in South Africa has quit her job to focus on her music career. Mutombodzi was working as a secretary at Forward In Faith International Church in Limpopo, South Africa, for five years. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Mutombodzi, who is popularly known as ‘Gloryah’ in the gospel circles, said she decided to follow her dreams. “I have been singing in church, but because of work, business and family, it was somehow difficult to balance the equation, hence the weaker aspect had to be dropped,” she said. “I have a degree in Business Management which I did with the University of Limpopo and currently I am studying for a post-graduate diploma in business management. Music is my calling and again if you check very well, nothing much has been done or is taking place because people are not going to church. “I am busy doing it online.” Mutombodzi, who is basking in the glory of releasing her first single “Zvamunogona”, said the Covid-19 lockdown had played a pivotal role in shaping her career. “Zvamunogona” was produced at Worship House studios in South Africa owned by Pastor Misheck Mahendere, a sibling and part of the famous Mahendere Brothers. “I am happy that my single has been received so well,” said Mutombodzi. “I was inspired by the holy spirit to write that song and it was the opportune time considering the Covid-19 issue, hence the song gives hope to my fans. “The song was inspired by Psalm 121 which encourages us to lift our eyes to the hills where our help comes from. I have also been doing online shows with my band, “Gloryah Musiq” with support from my husband who has been financing the project. “We have been doing different cover songs at first recording with my friend’s mobile phone before we decided to go professional.” Asked who her role model was, Mutombodzi said she adored South African gospel icon Benjamin Dube. “I am a vivid fan of Benjamin Dube,” she said. “I love his work so much. Locally I am inspired by Janet Manyowa and Minister Michael Mahendere. “I was just thinking of collaborating with Janet Manyowa on the remix of my single “Zvamunogona” and I am trying to reach out to her. My mother Jessie Changaza used to sing in the praise and worship team at church. She would sometimes take me along during to her music practice sessions and I would watch her sing. That’s how I fell in love with singing at church.” Mutombodzi said she never pursued music professionally on her own, but would occasionally be a backing vocalist for friends recording their albums. “This global pandemic was a wake-up call for me and hence I decided to quit my job and pursue my dream of singing gospel music.Thanks to my supportive husband who also plays various instruments, encouraging and helping me to embark on this journey.” Mutombodzi is married to Holdon and the couple is blessed with two children, Ivanna Tanatswa and Luke Tadiswa.