The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts JITI musician Braveman Chizvino, affectionately known as Baba Harare, says he is working on new album amid revelation that he was unwell. Baba Harare, who some speculations said had tested positive for coronavirus and relocated to the rural areas, denied the rumours but confirmed he was not feeling well over the past months. In an interview with The Herald Arts, he said he was working on a new album entitled “Izvi Zvinoitirwei” to be released and launched in October. “I have been busy in studio working on my forthcoming album which is set to be launched in October. I hope by then the lockdown would have been eased so that I can host the function and invite people, but if not, will still stick to the virtual platform. I have been ill for almost a month and I decided to go to rural areas in Zvimba. I tested negative for coronavirus but I had bad flu and suffered chest pains. I wanted to be far away from public, be on my won, trying to heal and discover myself. During my time in Zvimba, I was writing songs and now I am back on my grind in the gym trying to get those muscles on point,” he said. “The Reason Why” hit-maker said the album carries eight songs and was inspired by his life and the global pandemic. “Some of the songs include, “Tsikidzi”, “Alpha and Omega”, “Wash My Sins” and “Mucherechedzo” among others. This time around the album carries a mixture of genre such as gospel, jit and afro as I wanted to accommodate everyone. It also talks about my life during the time of global pandemic and I decided to name it that way because it is a question that many people still asks and waiting for answer,” he said. Baba Harare said will launch the album together with two videos. “I am in a process to shoot some of the videos as I want them to come out on the same time of the launch. I have understood the power of visuals in music industry. I am scouting locations and have engaged comedian Cody Rank Marshall on one of the videos. The album is being recorded and produced by Cymplex Music.” Asked about hosting lockdown online shows, Baba Harare said because of the illness he could not do one but now is working on something. “I am attending rehearsal sessions for “Ndipe Mic”, that is all I can say for now,” he said.