The Herald Blessings Chidakwa
Municipal Correspondent
The Epworth Local Board has reversed its decision to levy rates in foreign currency after sharp differences between councillors and management over the issue. The decision to introduce payment in foreign currency was widely condemned by residents who felt that they should have been consulted first. Councillors, who were siding with ratepayers, accused management of jumping the gun by introducing the option to pay bills using foreign currency without their blessings while the management insisted that the move was done above board. In an interview, the local board chairperson councillor Batanai Masunda said the decision to charge rates in foreign currency was unprocedural, hence its reversal. “It is not my board, which made that decision, some individuals within the management are responsible,” he said. “They were pointing at SI 85/2020, which they said allowed charging of some services in US dollars. In as much as they would want to increase their operational abilities, we have a culture of consultation first. “We have decided to go back to residents for consultation first as the payment of rates in foreign currency affects our ratepayers. It is unfortunate that residents were taken by surprise. This is not our culture of imposing things on people.” The board’s chief executive, Mr Wilton Mhanda, however, insisted that everything was done above board. “We are not asking ratepayers to pay in US dollars only but we are giving them a wider choice to pay in any currency of their choice,” he said. Epworth Residents Development Association secretary-general Mr Peter Nyapeto said the decision to introduce forex was ill advised. “As ratepayers we cannot even afford to pay in local currency let alone the greenback as source of income has serious affected by lockdown,” he said. “The new policy is not good for ratepayers it is more like dollarisation has taken over the local unit,” he said. The residents have always been castigating the local board for failing to provide essential basic services, including water supplies and refuse collection, a situation they say is exposing them to health risks.