The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
THE African Union Commission convened a Ministerial Virtual Forum on Tuesday which brought together Ministers of Sport, Sport Movement and other stakeholders in Africa. They discussed sport responses in mitigating the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the continent. The meeting was held in collaboration with the Republic of Algeria and the Chair of the Bureau of the Specialised Technical Committee on Youth Culture and Sport. Eighty six participants, including Ministers from five of the 10 African Union Sports Council Region 5 member countries, attended the meeting. Ministers of Sport from Angola, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique and South Africa attended on behalf of AUSC Region 5. In their deliberations, the Ministers placed emphasis on the need for governments to provide realistic guidelines on how people can remain active under such a fractured, and decimated, sporting environment. They also discussed how to deal with the growing anxiety related to the post Covid-19 period as most people, mainly athletes, keep speculating on whether sport, will be prioritized for support in Africa. The Ministers further sought to develop a continental response. In the presentation, on behalf of the AUSC Region 5 Council of Ministers, Likeleli Tampane, the Lesotho Minister of Gender, Youth, Sports and Recreation, in her capacity as the Region 5 Council of Ministers Chairperson, raised a number of suggestions to be considered. “Africa needs a risk-adjusted strategy to balance between saving lives and sustaining livelihoods in all considerations for a return to sport while ensuring that sport satisfies health protocols and requirements of experts to avoid spiking new waves of infections,” said Tampane. The AUSC Region 5 Council of Ministers recommended the need for African Member States to consider developing responses at systems and population level, Institutional level and Community level. “As Region 5 Council of Ministers, we recommend with strong conviction the need for African responses to address prevention and containment measures; advocacy and communication; advice and guidance on staying active; economic support packages and return to sport planning,” Tampane emphasised. The Conference was officially opened by the African Union Commissioner for Social Affairs, Amira Al Fadil. The indaba was chaired by Algeria Minister of Sports and Youth Sid Ali Khaldi. Also in attendance were African Ministers of Sport, the African Union Sports Council Co-ordinator Hikabwa Chipande, African Sports Development Regions Presidents and Secretaries General, Continental Sports Confederations, the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa, the African Women in Sport Association as well as the World Anti-Doping Agency Africa. The Conference resolved to introduce numerous responses, among them advocacy and awareness campaigns, to boost knowledge about the pandemic. Ministers also resolved to ensure that Governments prioritise sport, through sustainable funding, and creating a conducive environment for sport to thrive during and post Covid-19 pandemic. Governments and the sports movement were implored to provide stimulus response packages to mitigate the Covid-19-induced stress and anxiety on athletes and sports bodies.