The Herald Charles Mabika Special Correspondent
WHEN Spain won their maiden World Cup title in 2010, their main inspiration was their skipper and ‘keeper, Iker Casillas. The legendary ‘keeper, nicknamed St Iker, had a vintage show for La Roja and deservedly won the Golden Glove award for his heroics. Some also believe he should have won the Golden Ball award, which went to Uruguay sharpshooter, Diego Forlan. In this country, since the inception of the Castle Soccer Star of the Year award in 1969, it wasn’t until 1982 that the top prize finally went to a ‘keeper. Warriors and Black Rhinos ‘keeper, Japhet “Short Cat” Mparutsa, won it. But once again, it had took another 20 years before another goalminder was awarded the top prize, this time the prize going to former CAPS United and Warriors ‘keeper, Energy “Gokwe” Muramabadoro. Only one other ‘keeper — former Warriors and Dynamos goalminder, Washington Arubi, has won the Soccer Star of the Year award. That makes it just three times in the competition’s 50-year history. Just like Casillas, several local ‘keepers excelled, during their playing days, but have only managed to “warm up” the final 11 selectors’ list for the top individual award. Goalkeepers who punched above their weight, and could have easily grabbed the top prize, include the likes of Rob Jordan Bruce Grobbelaar (Callies); Rex Sheasby, John Gallacher (Sables); Walter Lawrie (Rufaro Rovers); Posani Sibanda (Wankie); Musa Muzanenhamo, John Sibanda, Muzondiwa Mugadza (Zimbabwe Saints);Frank Mkanga (Ziscosteel); Duncan Ellison, Brenna Msiska (CAPS United); Peter Nkomo, Tapiwa Kapini (Highlanders); Booker Muchenu, Emmanuel Nyahuma (Black Aces); Tafadzwa Dube (Masvingo United); Matthew Mwale, Lucky Dube, Peter Fanwell, Gift Muzadzi, Ernest Chirambadare, George Chigova (Dynamos). So, why are ‘keepers seemingly ignored worldwide when it comes to football’s top individual awards? Former Dynamos and Rio Tinto ‘keeper, Laban “Zuma” Kandi, thinks goalminders are overshadowed by their infield team mates. “Since long back, it looks like a soccer team is made up of 10 players and an extra guy (‘keeper) because the media practitioners, and some fans, seem to attach more importance to the infield players whilst paying little attention to the one between the goal post,” said Kandi. “All the glamour seems to be directed at how, for example, a forward scored a spectacular goal or how a midfielder was ‘spraying amazing passes.’ “Little is mentioned of the daring, and suicidal saves, a ‘keeper would have made. “So, in the final analysis, everything is centred on the ‘10 players’ only while the ‘extra guy’ is ignored. “I suppose it’s a sad fact that we ‘keepers have to live with.’’ Kandi remains the only man to save a penalty kick from Zimbabwe legend and former Dynamos spot kick specialist, George “Mastermind” Shaya, during a league match back in 1980. He was playing for Rio Tinto. “When I saved Shaya’s spot kick, it was the first time that had happened for over a decade and the talking point, after the game, was how Shaya had missed and not about me saving his effort,’’ said Kandi “It’s a feat that had been deemed impossible for a long time. “That’s what I’m trying to say about all the glamour going to the infield guys.” Former Tanganda ‘keeper, Spencer Ngove, who starred in the team’s magical run in the 1994 Castle Cup tournament that ended with a shock penalty shootout victory over favourites CAPS United, echoed Kandi’s sentiments. “Up to this day I really don’t have an answer as to what ‘keepers have to do in order to grab the top award,’’ he said. “In a game, you can make 10 breathtaking saves, and make a mistake that lets in the single goal of the match, while your strikers take turns to miss 10 easy chances, “What happens? “It’s about you being responsible for the team losing. “Maybe one day, the journalists and fans will attach as much importance to the ‘keepers as much as they do to the infield players, especially the strikers.’’ Former Highlanders stalwart, Peter “Captain Oxo” who was the Bosso number one in the ‘80s and ‘90s, said it never really bothered him that all the attention seemed to be on his infield teammates. “I would always concentrate on making sure that the team did well and, if I missed out on the top award, well it was tough luck. “But, oh yes, I wish fans and journalists alike could pay more attention to the enormous task covered by ‘keepers.”