The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
A Zimbabwean musician and entrepreneur who is based in South Africa, Tapfuma Nzara, known as T-Mula in music circles, has relished his interview on BBC World where he shared his musical journey story. T-Mula — who has worked with international and local artistes such as Davido, Cassper Nyovest, AKA, Burna Boy, Bonang Matheba, Jah Prayzah, Winky D, Tammy Moyo and Nox — said musicians should take art as a serious business which can sustain livelihoods. The entrepreneur, who rents out luxurious cars for musical videos through “Mula VIP Rentals”, has done over 700 videos and owes the success to God. His interview has gone viral, touching many lives and giving hope, especially in such difficult times caused by Covid-19, that one can make it happen by being serious in business. In an interview with The Herald Arts, T-Mula said it was quite an experience sharing his story on such a platform. “We used to hear or read about other countries and this time around it has been on our door step,” he said. “We should emulate each other as we are role models to many. My story has gone viral and this has also put the country on the map. “To begin with, I started the business by luck and credit it to always having my entrepreneurial senses on at all times. In my last job I was lucky to have access to some luxury vehicles through work and had a few contacts in entertainment industry, that’s how it began,” said Tapfuma. T-Mula, who is well known for writing and recording a rap song in South Africa’s actor Leon Schuster’s Mama Jack movie, said artistes should not only rely on their careers, but have a business mind in order to survive. “Look now, many artistes are stuck because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. “It is a fact that the lockdown had been very slow for everyone. “Our event management side of the business is very slow and you can tell that people are not renting mansions for their birthday parties and weddings, but luckily the essentiality of production services due to the demand for television content, makes production work essential and that has allowed us to at least work.” The “Wine Up Slow” hitmaker said the mood in the entertainment industry was very optimistic, as they hoped to return to normal hectic schedules. “I knew the value of those assets to a production or to an artiste and started pushing for videography rentals for the cars,” he said. “Now, in six years we have done more than 700 music videos, including films and television series, among others. “I can’t think of any top African artist or celebrity that I have not worked with. I believe our company has benefited the community in many ways and I have been paying my dues to the community either by creating employment or helping in building infrastructure that benefit them.” T-Mula said people should remove the mindset that they were underdeveloped and that Africa was terrible to live, which is not true. “By assisting the African artistes to easily get various luxury assets for their content, we are actually promoting tourism,” he said. “These artistes are watched by millions across the globe, and it shows the more beautiful side of the African content.” Asked who his role model was, T-Mula said he was inspired by American hip-hop mogul P Diddy. “I admire how P Diddy is a serial entrepreneur in the entertainment industry and that is my plan in Africa. I plan to launch, ‘Mula VIP Rentals’ back home and assist in the development of the entertainment business industry,”  he said. T-Mula was last year honoured with an honorary award at the Zimbabwe Hip-hop awards ceremony  for being a cultural ambassador.