The Herald LONDON. — He would “cost zillions to replace” and manager Mikel Arteta wants to “build his squad around him” — but will Arsenal captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang stay at Arsenal? The striker scored another two goals in Arsenal’s memorable 2-1 victory over Chelsea in Saturday’s FA Cup final – securing their place in next season’s Europa League football in the process. He became just the fifth player to score two or more goals in a cup match at Wembley on more than one occasion, joining former Arsenal striker Ian Wright, Bryan Robson, Ian Rush and Eric Cantona. Aubameyang is also the first African captain to lift the FA Cup with the Gunners. The fans love him, the manager loves him . . . but, with just one year left on his contract, has the 31-year-old Gabon striker played his last game for the Gunners? When pressed about the forward’s future, Arteta said he thinks Aubameyang will stay. “He knows what I think about him. I want to build the squad around him. I think he wants to stay and it is just about getting the deal done,” Arteta told BBC One. “I think these moments will help him to realise and believe that we are on the right path and he is a big part of that. He is loved by everybody at the club. Hopefully he can continue with us.” But Aubameyang was more coy. Aubameyang says he is “not thinking about” his future at this current time after his brace sealed Arsenal their 14th FA Cup trophy in the win over Chelsea at Wembley. The Gabon international has entered the final year of his current contract and could walk away for nothing in less than 12 month’s time if he fails to sign a new deal. Arteta has repeatedly stated he is confident that the club captain will commit his future to the north London club, despite Arsenal having missed out on Champions League qualification. Aubameyang is said to want a three-year deal worth £250 000-a-week and proved his worth yet again with two goals against Chelsea at Wembley. Speaking after the final whistle, the 31-year-old refused to commit on his future at the club. “‘I am really not thinking about this now. I really just want to enjoy with the guys and take the trophy now,” he told BT Sport. “I think everyone gave their best for the team today, we deserved it. The journey has been long, great evening, I will enjoy all night for sure, I had this inspiration.” Meanwhile, teammates Rob Holding and an emotional Emiliano Martinez were full of praise for their skipper. “Aubameyang seems to do it on the break in every game. He is a our talisman and has done it all season,” said Holding. “I said to him (Aubameyang) before the game, you are going to win us the game,” added Martinez, who was crying at full-time. Aubameyang won and converted a penalty for Arsenal’s equaliser in the 28th-minute, cancelling out Christian Pulisic’s early opener for Chelsea. But it was his second goal which really caught the eye, prompting former England international Danny Murphy, the co-commentator for BBC, to call Aubameyang “a world class footballer”. “That finish from Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was absolutely sensational,” said Murphy. “We have seen how important it is today for Arsenal to keep him. It’s a beautiful, beautiful finish.” English Premier League winner Chris Sutton added on BBC Radio 5 Live: “Aubameyang would cost zillions to replace. Absolute zillions. You can see why Arsenal want to keep him. — BBC Sport.