The Herald Albert Marufu in LONDON, England
FORMER CAPS United captain, Joe “Kode” Mugabe, believes the time has come for a footballer with a traceable professional record, to take charge at ZIFA. The England-based football legend, a Soccer Star of the Year finalist in 1994, 1995, 1996 and 2001, said although it’s not given that being a former player will translate into being a good football leader, the domestic game should give an ex-football star a chance. Former Zimbabwe international forward, Alois Bunjira, has formally thrown his name into the ring, for the battle for the 2022 ZIFA presidency. Mugabe, Bunjira’s teammate when CAPS United won the 1996 championship, said he is happy that his former teammate has shown interest in the top job. “That post does not necessarily need someone who has played football,’’ Mugabe said. “However, there are advantages in being a former player in the sense that you know the problems clubs and players face. It is all about the love of football. “A candidate needs to ask himself, or herself, if they are in it for the development of the game or for money.’’ Mugabe left an indelible mark in local football after breaking into the CAPS United first team in 1988. “Judging by the calibre of people who have run ZIFA in the past, I do not see why a former player should not take over,’’ he said. “We have had many people who never played football, or with little knowledge of the sport, running football in Zimbabwe. “And, the results have been disastrous.” Mugabe, who is based in Reading, England, is currently writing his autobiography. His brother, Innocent, a former CAPS United player, is also based in Reading but runs a football academy back home in Harare’s high-density suburb of Mabvuku. Mugabe, who was voted as the CAPS United Player of the Year a record four times in 1993, 1994, 1998 and 2001 said Bunjira had shown bravery to go for the top job. “I am happy that one of the former players, Alois Bunjira, has been brave enough to show an interest in the post,’’ he said. “Alois is a person that I have played with, and against, and I know how passionate he is about football. “He always wants to win and is not a person who sulks under pressure. “When he joined CAPS United in 1996, he did not take long to gel into the team and when things were not going on well for the team, he is one of those players who would be encouraging others. “He is also one player who could change the complexion of the game in our favour.’’ Mugabe, whose consistent performances for CAPS United saw the club contemplating retiring the number 7 shirt, however, does not see himself occupying the top administrative post one day. He sees himself more on the technical side, adding, “I see myself more as a technical person.” There has been growing interest by former footballers across the continent, to try and take charge of their national football associations. African football legend, Didier Drogba, has been cleared to contest the race for the Ivorian Football Federation. The elections are set for next month. Drogba will battle Idris Diallo, a former vice-president of the FIF, and Sory Diabate, a member of the outgoing leadership. The 42-year-old Drogba has received endorsements from three Ivorian Ligue 1 clubs, two Ligue 2 clubs, two Champion Division 3 clubs and an interest group. And, he has been receiving the backing of some of the Ivorian football legends. “Thank you, dear people of Cote d’Ivoire, the diaspora and all of Africa because more than ever your voice has echoed,’’ retired Ivorian goalkeeper, Copa Barry, wrote on his Facebook page. “Thank you to the brilliant DD team for their commitment — president Eugene Diomande, Kouassi Blaise, Zoro Marc, Didier Ottokore, Akassou Ghislain, Paul Ledjou, Eric Monnet, Yaya Touré, Adam Khalil and Namory Diomande. “And special mention to the mother of our DD legend, who, from the start, takes care of this team on a daily basis. “I invite you to go see the presidents of your clubs, in your locality, your municipality to say your choice and give your voice. If they like you, they will hear you.” Support for Drogba has been growing despite the legend having initially been snubbed by some of his former teammates. “Football is everyone’s sport, football brings people together, football unites. We can see it today with all these people gathered in front of the headquarters of the Ivorian football federation,” Drogba told the media. “It’s no secret that our football is going badly, and that is why with my team we are committed to contributing to the rebirth of Ivorian football. “If my goal was not driven by a deep desire to give back to Ivorian football all that it has given me, to contribute to the development of football in my country, and if God was not in this candidacy, it would be difficult to be in front of you today.”