The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter LEGENDARY football commentator, Charles Mabika, nicknamed him “The Bomber” in 1984. And, he used to bang goals. Plenty of them. Three times, in 1987, 1990 and 1991, he bagged the Golden Boot. And, four times, from 1990 to 1993, he made the Soccer Star of the Year calendar. In 1994, Maronga Nyangela ended the season as the joint top goalscorer, with the late Highlanders striker Adam Ndlovu, and they each pocketed $1 250. Yet the former Black Rhinos striker, failed to break into the Warriors ranks. His goals were instrumental in helping the army side win two league titles in 1984 and 1987. “During my time, there were so many good strikers and for one to be called for national duty depended on the coach of that day as to which type of a striker he wanted,” said Nyangela. “There were the likes of Shacky (Tauro), Moses ‘Bambo’ Chunga and Jerry (Chidawa) among an array of other lethal strikers. “There is always a reason why some things never happen. I wasn’t really part of the national team. “In 1987, I won the Golden Boot, after scoring 29 goals in another tittle-winning exploit, the previous season I had scored 28 goals, but could not match Chunga, who scored over 40 goals.’’ Nyangela only got a chance to play in the top-flight league after his friend, Boniface Makuruzo, convinced him to try his luck at Black Aces. Apart from Screentone, Nyangela also featured for an amateur side, Lobels, together with midfielder Moses “Gwejegweje” Chasweka, Stanford “Stix” Mutizwa, his teammate at Rhinos, describes him as one of the best strikers to play on the domestic front. “No doubt, Nyangela was one of the most prolific goalscorers in the country,” said Mutizwa. “He is one striker who was dependable. You knew when you work your way in midfield, Maronga (Nyangela) would do justice to your work. “From a player’s point of view, I strongly believe he could fit into the senior national team and, from coaches’ point of view, I don’t know why they were not picking him. “He had all the qualities of a striker, he was strong, his aerial prowess was inch-perfect, he could pack those powerful shots.’’ Mabika said Nyangela was born to score goals. “Maronga (Nyangela) for me, was one of the finest strikers ever to play in the domestic leagues,’’ he said. “When you talk of scoring goals, from half chances, and heading prowess, Nyangela was head and shoulders above the rest. “His speed was incredible. “I recall Black Rhinos’ CAF Champions League match against Power Dynamos of Zambia at Rufaro in 1985. “Rhinos had won in Zambia, beating Power Dynamos 2-0, a result that sent shockwaves across the continent. “The return leg was dubbed ‘Revenge Mission’ by the Zambians and Black Rhinos deployed a defensive formation with Nyangela the lone striker. “Power Dynamos scored first and as they piled on the pressure, Japhet ‘Shortcat’ M’parutsa intercepted a cross and quickly picked Stanley ‘Sinyo’ Ndunduma who lofted the ball onto Nyangela’s path. “The latter volleyed the ball home and Rhinos were through to the next stage. “That’s how good Nyangela was.’’ Mabika said Nyangela had a similar style like Nyasha Mushekwi. “The only player who played more, or less, like him is Nyasha Mushekwi,’’ said Mabika. “I think Mushekwi prematurely ended his Warriors flirtation as he still has a lot to offer. “I don’t think he was being overlooked by the coaches. I think the presence of Tauro was his main problem. “He was called into the national team several times, but Tauro would always get the nod. “But, had he played in any other era, he would have played consistently for the national team.’’ Another former top marksman, David “Broom Boy” George, said Nyangela was just as lethal as Tauro and Peter “Thunderboots” Nyama. “For me, Nyangela was just as good as the late Shacky Tauro and Peter Nyama,’’ he said. “I still don’t know why the coaches overlooked him for national duty. “He was just a deadly striker, who was a nightmare for many defenders, during his playing days.’’ Nyangela believes the current crop of strikers are struggling to score as they were not born as natural goalscorers. “In our generation, strikers were able to employ that element of surprise, to be able to score goals using both legs,’’ he said. “We understood the purpose of the game, which is scoring and winning, and we played the game, not for fame, but because we were born strikers and loved what we were born to do. “Today’s strikers aren’t determined enough, they lack that hunger, that desire, that drive, that urge to thrive.’’ The Black Rhinos legend is now running academies in Mufakose and Mabvuku to try and nurture the next generation of footballers. He is also part of the Terrence Chizengwa-led Rhinos executive.