The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
SOUTH African Premiership side, Chippa United, are in the eye of a storm amid revelations they could be dragged to FIFA following their failure to pay transfer fees to Zimbabwean champions FC Platinum for the services of twin brothers Kelvin and Elvis Moyo. The duo moved to the club last July on a two-year contract, plus one-year add-on, from champions FC Platinum. But the Zvishavane side are believed to have sought recourse from the Swiss-based organisation. Yesterday, FC Platinum spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, confirmed the club were still owed but denied they have approached FIFA. “I know that there is non-payment of the players and they (Chippa) have committed to dates, so we will wait. ‘’But we have not approached FIFA,” said Chizondo. The Port Elizabeth club are under the spotlight following the sudden departure of coach Norman Mapeza, who tendered his resignation letter on Monday. Sources said Mapeza was frustrated by the system and the club and decided to quit while his reputation was still intact. “When Mapeza arrived at the club there was gross indiscipline whereby players would go to night clubs, on the eve of a match, while in camp,’’ the sources said. ‘’He completely changed everything to get results. He changed the training regime, the players were working hard to get those results but the problem was that they were not used to it. “The major issue was that the players were not happy and motivated. The players are owed money and salaries are not paid on time. “Two days before the Sundowns’ game, the players boycotted training. ‘’The owner has some senior players, who are his spies and give him information on what would have transpired at the training, so the coach was forced to compromise the way he does things. “So, he got to a point that he was so frustrated it was not easy to push players who were not paid salaries and signing-on fees. There is chaos at the club.’’ Mapeza’s manager, Gibson Mahachi, yesterday said they don’t have any regrets joining Chippa. He said Mapeza appreciated the opportunity he got to coach a South African Premiership club and will forever be grateful to Chippa for the exposure they gave him. “We had a wonderful relationship with Mpengesi (the club owner). We never fought for anything with him, if anything the relationship was good. “We appreciate what he did for Norman. He went there, did his job to the best of his ability, and results are there for everyone to see. ‘’But, he got to the point that, for the sake of the club, he needed someone who can take over and that is what he stated in his resignation letter that he feels the club may benefit from a new set of hands, with different skills set and coaching approach.’’ Mapeza returned home on Tuesday to be with his family. He was staying alone in South Africa while his wife made occasional visits.