The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
SOUTH African football legend and CAF inspector, Mark Fish, is encouraged by the work being done at the National Sport Stadium. Fish, together with veteran South African administrator Derek Blackensee, are in the country to inspect the giant stadium and Barbourfields. Yesterday they toured the National Sports Stadium, which is under massive renovations, following Government’s recent intervention. The team is also set to tour Barbourfields tomorrow for the first phase of inspection ahead of the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. The final phase, to determine suitability to host the World Cup matches, will be done in August. Zimbabwe are in Group G alongside Ghana, South Africa and Ethiopia. And the inspection team, which will give their recommendations after extensively assessing the facility, said they felt encouraged by the efforts being done. “What is very encouraging is that you have individuals here who have put up a team together that understands the importance of playing football and working together to make sure the facility is lifted to a standard that is required by FIFA and CAF,’’ said Fish. “That is important for the fans, as well, to sit in an environment that is safe and, obviously, for football players to play on a football surface that is good for football so that the fans can see the best of football. “So, this is encouraging to see that individuals are working together to make sure we can sort the situation in Zimbabwean football.’’ The former Bafana Bafana defender says they will give their recommendations to CAF. “We were looking at the stadium, we look at the infrastructure, then we look at the dressing rooms and the playing field and we do assessment and give recommendations to CAF on what do we think should happen,’’ he said. “Then, CAF makes a decision. “We have come from Mozambique, I will go to Zambia and Ethiopia, and so we are going throughout the whole continent. “We will send the requirements, the checklist, things that we think should be done and they will give feedback to the federation and you have got up to October because this is specifically for World Cup qualifiers. “Hopefully, everything, is done by end of April so that you get to improve and play football.’’ CAF have roped in former players in their inspection teams as they believe they understand what is required.