The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
WITH the 2020 Premiership season’s start being shelved for, at least 60 days, giants Dynamos and CAPS United have eased their training routines. CAPS United coach, Darlington Dodo, hailed the Government’s stance to delay the start of the leagues as part of measures to combat the spread of coronavirus. “Obviously, we have to alter a little bit following this development,’’ said Dodo. “We don’t have to overwork the players and, at the same time, we don’t have to relax too much. “We should keep our shape. “You never know what happens next so we just have to stay intact, technically and tactically. “I also think this gives us more time to assess our players, seeing where we need improvements. But, we don’t have any regrets. We believe this is the best decision that has been made, no doubt about it. “The primary thing is life, everything else is secondary.’’ Dodo had planned to trim his squad this week with some of the players being seconded to ZIFA Northern Region Division One side Black Mambas. But the Green Machine coach said he will shelve those plans. Dynamos assistant coach, Gift “Umbro” Muzadzi, said they may give their players some few days’ off before resuming training. “This is a very important period in our lives as football people,’’ said Muzadzi. “We welcome the decision that has been made, obviously, because people’s lives matter the most. “The 60 days ahead will be very key. “We will need to sit down, do more mental training as we look forward to the start of the season. “We had geared for the start of the season so, in terms of mentality, we need to work on that intensively.’’ Ngezi Platinum Stars gaffer, Rodwell Dhlakama, is planning to have more preparatory matches to keep his charges fit. “We have to keep on training so that by the time the situation normalises, we will still be in a position to play good football,’’ said Dhlakama. “Of course, we will stand guided by the authorities. “We will change a little bit in terms of intensity. But, kudos to the Government for the decision, life is more precious than anything else.”