The Herald Sports Reporter
AS Zimbabwe brace for the Davis Cup World Group II play-off against Syria this weekend, captain Gwinyai Tongoona says his players’ form is looking good and is confident they will sail through. Zimbabwe take on Syria tomorrow and Saturday at Harare Sports Club. The draw will be conducted today at the same venue. Zimbabwe side is made up of Benjamin Lock, Takanyi Garanganga, Courtney Lock, Mehluli Sibanda and Ethan Sibanda. Tongoona has been leading the team for the past two years. “We have been working on different things . . . the guys are ready, they have been playing tournaments, so we have just been really getting used to conditions, do a few more polish play today. “But, we are up, the guys are ready and I think everyone is used to the court. It’s very positive so far. “It looks like everyone is playing quite well. I mean Benji is playing very well, he has been winning the Challengers and even during practice, you can see his level of play. “Same as Takanyi and Mehluli, as well, I mean the level of play has gone up (for) everyone. “I guess some of those tough matches we played last year really helped these guys to push themselves up and we are looking good,” said Tongoona. The winners from the play-off will play another tie later in the year for promotion to Group I for 2021. The losing side will drop into Group III. Zimbabwe lost to Romania in the last tie in 2019. However, they are the favourites in this tie, ranked 64, eight places better than their opponents. But Tongoona is aware they cannot read much into the rankings and said it is important they start on a winning note. “It’s important because if we lose this match we go to Group III, I believe. If we win, then we have a play-off to go up next year to Group I. So it would mean if we qualify for Group I, it means we are playing at a higher profile, it will be better tennis for the guys, it would be better tennis if we are hosting. It would be better tennis for the fans to watch. “We will also have a match in September if we win this first one. It will also be high profile because it’s a play-off. So this tie is very important for us to try and get a result,” said Tongoona. Syria’s team is made up of Hazem Naw, Yacoub Makzoume, Amer Naow, Rabee Sleem, Majdi Salim and their captain is Robert Makzoume.