The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA Eastern Region Division One chairman, Davison Muchena, has pleaded with the Premier Soccer League to be lenient with newcomers Tenax. The club missed the deadline to pay affiliation fees to confirm their maiden dance in the top-flight league. The Mutare outfit, together with Whawha, were on Tuesday expelled from the league over non-payment of affiliation fees. But Tenax had made a commitment, after paying a bigger chunk of their affiliation fees, before the deadline. They were left with a balance of $58 000 when the March 13 deadline lapsed. Yesterday, club chairman, Stefani Masina, was in Harare making frantic efforts to pay the remainder of the fees. The newcomers were required to fork out $208 000 to become part of the PSL family. Yesterday, Muchena said since the club had shown big commitment, by making the part payment, and that the league has been delayed by, at least two months, PSL should give them a reprieve. “I don’t know what effect the late payment will have on the PSL but if Zimbabwe Prison Services and Tenax manage to pay the balance (today), in the interest of football, it is better to accommodate them because football is not going to be played this month or the coming month,” he said. “As far as we are concerned, Tenax will be playing in the PSL. The unfortunate part is we have come up with a fixture programme, we have already concluded our 16 teams for this season.’’ Whahwa yesterday were also singing the same tune. Club chairman, Watson Matara, said the Midlands community were keen for Premiership football and have promised to stand by the club. “Our players are devastated with the news. We have assembled a strong squad that is capable of competing in the Premier League and we are no longer Division One material,’’ said Matara. “Even if you check with ZPC Kariba coach, Godfrey Tamirepi, he will tell you that we have assembled a good team. “We are confident that we will be able to make the full payment soon and once we have the money we will talk to PSL. “The Midlands community wants to see us playing in the PSL and have promised to assist and we are confident that we will no longer have monetary issues as a club. “We have discussed with the team president and we are confident that we will pay and the league will understand our plight.’’ The newboys missed three deadlines, from January, to pay their fees. This suggests the clubs are not financially sound to withstand the financial requirements of the Premiership and could struggle midway during the season. Other two league newcomers, Cranborne Bullets and Bulawayo City, have already paid their affiliation fees in full.