The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Many milestones mark memorable moments during South Africa’s boxing history since 1884 when James Robertson “Jamie” Couper stopped Pat O’Connar in the second round at Kimberley on August 30 in a bout reported as being for the South African heavyweight title. Some of the outstanding events over the past 136 years are: 1889 — On July 26 Couper fought a bruiser from London’s East End, one Woolf Bendoff, to put an end to Couper’s reign as champion of South Africa. To make a long story short, Bendoff who was reportedly brought to South Africa by Barney Barnato, was a highly rated pugilist and the 35-year old Couper had already announced his retirement, that the odds were all in favour of Bendoff, with Abe Bailey one of the few whom still believed in Couper With the total purse of 4500 pounds, the fight was set for July 26, 1889. The only uncertain factor was President Paul Kruger’s attitude, as prize-fighting was illegal in the Transvaal and everybody knew that the President did not favour the sporting pastimes of the “uitlanders”, as the foreigners were called. After hearing that there was a big Englishman in Johannesburg who said he can thrash any man in the Transvaal, Kruger said, “Shoot him! “. Upon hearing further details about this stranger, he at once signed an order that the police were on no account to interfere with the fight. On the day of the fight all stores, even the Stock Exchange, closed as the fight promised to be the fight of the century. After 27 rounds it proved to be just that when Bendoff was beaten to a pulp and unable to continue. Some reports have the bout ending in the 26th round. The prize money remained a record for a bout under London Prize Ring rules. As a result of the Bendoff-Couper fight, professional boxing became extremely popular in South Africa. Thanks to Couper the sport received a sound footing and grew from strength to strength. 1889 — The longest bare-knuckle fight in South Africa took place between Barney Malone and Jan Silberbauer on November 30 outside Kimberley (they crossed the border into the Free State with the Cape and Bechuanaland police looking on from their own territories. The fight lasted 5 hours and 30 minutes. Malone was declared the winner after 212 rounds. The toil taken by both fighters resulted in Silberbauer not fighting for three years and Malone did not fully recover from his injuries for nearly a year. 1893 — Malone was involved in another marathon matchup on July 3 against Jim Holloway when after five and half hours and 73 rounds the fight was declared a draw. The fight was billed for the South African lightweight title. 1923 — The Boxing Control Act is passed in parliament, making professional boxing legal in South Africa. Prior to 1923 boxing was illegal, but Ludwig Japhet who had a law practice in Johannesburg had a passion for boxing and in 1918, soon after World War 1, he began working on plans to legalise boxing. With the aid of friends he drafted a bill and persuaded George McAllister the Member of Parliament for Germiston to introduce the bill to Parliament in 1923. At the end of the first day after discussion on the proposed bill it appeared as if all was lost, but that night a young girl was raped and her escort beaten up. Japhet later said he believed that the report of the rape in the next day’s Cape Argus influenced the decision. John X. Merriman joined the debate in favour of boxing and it was soon agreed that if the girl’s escort had some boxing knowledge he might have been able to protect her. The opposition fell away and the act that legalised boxing was promulgated. 1927 — On October 26 at the Albert Hall in London Willie Smith becomes the first South African world champion when he outpoints Teddy Baldock from England for the British version of the world bantamweight title. 1942 — George Purchase who won the South Africa lightweight title in 1931 has the claim to most fights by a South African professional fighter. In career from 1929 to 1942 he took part in 129 fights. He could have had more as recording was not so accurate at the time. 1950 — On May 31 Vic Toweel wins the universal world bantamweight title with a 15 round points decision over Mexican/American Manuel Ortiz to win the world bantamweight title, when there were only eight divisions in boxing; and to date is the only South African to hold a universal world title. 1954 — Willie Toweel, only SA boxer to win four National titles. (1954 1955 1956 1960) 1955 — On September 3 Willie Toweel fights to a 15 round draw with Robert Cohen in Johannesburg, first world title fight in South Africa to end in a draw. 1959 — Willie Toweel: first SA boxer to top the bill at Madison Square Garden. (versus Lenny Matthews). 1973 — Enoch “Schoolboy” Nhlapo has the most victories in the history of South African professional boxing. He fought from February 1973 to February 1973 and compiled a record of 100 wins, 15 losses, 3 draws, 1 no contest and won 32 fights inside the distance. 1979 — Stanley Vokwana becomes the first black South African to promote a world title fight in South Africa when he stages the WBA junior lightweight championship bout between Samuel Serrano and Happyboy Mgxaji in Cape Town on April 14. 1980 — Peter “Terror” Mathebula becomes the first black South African to win a world title when he beats Tae Shik Kim on points for the WBA flyweight title in Los Angeles on December 13. — AFP.