The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE last time newly-appointed Dynamos captain, Patson Jaure, was at the team, the Glamour Boys were champions. That was seven years ago. He left in 2013 when the Glamour Boys won the third of their four consecutive league titles. Jaure was a key member of that team which monopolised the domestic football scene under the guidance of Callisto Pasuwa. The versatile defender quickly transformed himself from just a squad member, into a key player, after arriving from lower division side, La Liga. And by the end of 2013, South African teams were stalking Jaure before the player’s handlers picked University of Pretoria as the right club their client. He played in the first team for the better part of his stay there until he returned home in 2017, following the relegation of the Tshwane side. Despite growing interest from Dynamos, Jaure joined Tonderai Ndiraya’s Ngezi Platinum Stars before moving to Zambian club Buildcon. But, he was frozen out of the team before he decided to track back home to join Manica Diamonds. But, with Ndiraya back at Dynamos, and Jaure unwilling to stretch his stay at Manica Diamonds, he rejoined the Glamour Boys, the last team he won a major trophy with. He has been rewarded with the captaincy and is the only member from that 2013 squad at the team right now. “It has been long but I knew the very day I left the team that I would be back again,’’ he said. Dynamos is the team that has always been on my heart. I won three league titles with them between 2011 and 2013 and that means everything in my career. “To then come back, after attachments outside the country and other teams on the local circles, and be handed the captaincy means the world to me. “Such appointments, at a great team like Dynamos, come with increased responsibilities and I should state that I am ready for those responsibilities. “I have wandered and picked a lot of lessons, in terms of career development, but I miss winning the league title. I decided to come back to Dynamos to win those titles. “I salute the technical team and the management who decided to give me this huge responsibility. I am ready for the challenge and, come end of the season, we will be celebrating like we used to do back in 2012, 2013.’’ The 2020 season had been scheduled to start this weekend but the coronavirus threat has forced authorities to shelve proceedings, at least for 60 days, and Jaure believes that window will allow his teammates to gel well. DeMbare have taken in 13 new players and Jaure is excited by the newboys. “I believe the team has signed some of the most talented players we have in the country at the moment,’’ he said. ‘’You look at Juan Mutudza, Sylvester Appiah, King Nadolo and Tino Chiunye… “Those guys are talented and it reminds me of the days I first arrived at the team. Most of us were new but you would look at Denver Mukamba, Devon Chafa, Rodreck Mutuma and others and conclude that we were, indeed, bound to write a piece of history. “That is the same feeling I have at the moment. But, hard work is everything. I have been telling the guys how we used to do extra training back then with amazing results.”