The Herald Clodine Manyozo Arts Reporter
Many assumptions have been made when it comes to the relationship between gospel musicians Mathias Mhere and Blessing Shumba. Shumba rose to fame through his second album “NdiMwari” in 2010. With Mhere having risen to fame in 2012 with his album “Anoita Minana” on the back of being accused of copying Shumba’s style, excelling at it, and seemingly overshadowing him, revealers have always assumed that there was bad blood between the duo. This is despite public reports from both camps refuting the claims. The two musicians have finally cleared the air, maybe in a way that will stop speculations — that is through a collaboration. Titled “Driver Wehupenyu”, the single is due for release next week and will be their first collaboration. In an interview with The Herald Arts and Culture, Mathias Mhere said there was never any form of enmity between him and Shumba. “We were never enemies, we never had any problems despite what people thought or said,” said Mhere. “People may have thought our similarities in style of music have caused friction as in other music genres, but it was never the case, just that people have wrong perceptions.” Mhere said working together was meant to dispel long-standing rumours of enmity and disunity. “Working together on this track  ‘Driver Wehupenyu’ is our way of showing people that we are brothers and there is no bad blood between us,” he said. Mhere said he never copied Shumba. “The collaboration is also there to show that we have different styles despite the fact that we are worshipping God,” said Mhere. “People will have a song to compare and have their conclusion whether I’m copying my brother Blessing or not.” Mhere said their work experience was the best thing ever as they got to share ideas. “Working with him (Shumba) was so amazing as we got to share ideas and enjoy the moments,” he said. The song was produced by Charles Ayibek who has previously worked with both artistes on different projects. “Driver Wehupenyu” will be released coupled with a video directed by Naxo Films.