The Herald Leroy Dzenga Arts Reporter The Southern African Development Community SADC should consider having a regional beauty pageant, a former top model has said. Basetsana Khumalo, who was the first Miss South Africa in the post-apartheid era, made the remarks at the just ended “I am Women’s Conference” held over the weekend in Harare. The conference was organised by personal brand coach, business etiquette strategist and motivational speaker Nyengeterai Mahaka. The event ran under the theme; “Unapologetically You” and attracted well known names such as Ruth Makandiwa, Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa and Pokello Nare. Speaking to The Herald Arts, Khumalo said such events could help regional integration, as well as inspire women across the region. “When I became Miss South Africa in 1994, black people were previously not allowed to participate in the Miss South Africa as it was predominantly a white pageant,” she said. “Understanding that I was changing the face of pageantry in South Africa and redefining the ideals of beauty combined with an educational background, I understood that future generations would look at what I did, it was a huge responsibility.” Khumalo said there was a lot of unsung talent in the region which needed to be given more platforms. “I think it will be a good idea to have a regional pageant in Southern Africa, where we can use the platform to bring people together,” she said. “It can be a boost to regional integration; pageants are not just about swimsuits and answering questions, they have a deeper role to play. “During my reign, I used to travel around with Madiba as the face of the new South Africa. It warms my heart when young people say I inspired them by entering the pageant. “The other day, Zozibini Tunzi was saying she was a little girl when I won Miss South Africa and she told herself she wanted to be like me, now she is Miss Universe. Imagine if the same could be done at a regional level? It could be a platform where we inspire girls from across the region and tell our story as a region.” If her suggestion is followed, the pageant will be the showbiz equivalent of COSAFA; a football competition in which countries in the region compete annually. SADC has a protocol on regional integration through the use of arts and culture, however, the protocol has rarely been put to effect over the years, leading to calls by figures like Khumalo. The “I AM Women’s Conference” which brought Khumalo to Zimbabwe, is a platform where women from different sectors and vocations interact to share notes, as well as inspire each other.