The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter NEW FC Platinum president Fabian Mashingaidze has accepted the challenge to take the Premiership football champions to another level following a reshuffle that was announced at the club’s Silver Jubilee celebrations. Mashingaidze, a medical doctor by profession, inherited a side that has dominated the domestic Premiership by winning the league championship thrice on the bounce in the last three seasons. The platinum miners, however, have disappointed on the continental stage where they have struggled to go beyond the group games. Mashingaidze hailed his predecessor George Mawere for transforming the club into a dominant force on the domestic scene. “I am truly humbled to accept the appointment as the new president of the club at a time it has attained a lot of great things. I am, likewise, challenged to fill in the shoes of a truly great man who I personally admire and thank for placing the club on a platform so high. “Let me extend my heartfelt gratitude to the entire Pure Platinum Play family on this great occasion as we celebrate our Silver Jubilee; a journey of true inspiration and passion,” said Mashingaidze. FC Platinum have already made it clear they would want to challenge for the title again this year to match the record held by giants Dynamos and Highlanders, who are the only teams in the Premiership to have lifted the title four consecutive times in Zimbabwe’s topflight football. The platinum miners are also scheduled to represent Zimbabwe again in the upcoming CAF Champions League in August and have been busy beefing-up their side for the twin challenge. Mashingaidze, who is also the Medical Superintendent at Gweru Provincial Hospital, appealed for support to ensure the club’s continued success. “The 25-year walk of Pure Platinum Play started off in small steps but now these have grown into giant strides. I am very humbled to be entrusted with this role as I embrace this huge responsibility. “I will do so with optimism and hope that together we will reach the unimaginable heights as we strive to reach our vision of becoming a leading football brand in Africa. “This journey is an all-encompassing mission whose success is dependent upon the support of the entire FC Platinum family,” said Mashingaidze. He will be deputised by Mnyasha Gumbie as first vice-president with Evans Mtombeni, who has been the club chairman during their glorious days, getting a new post of second vice-president in the reshuffle. Mawere also left his other position as chairman of FC Platinum Holdings, a company under the banner of Mimosa Mine created in 2014 to support sporting activities within the Midlands Province. The company owns FC Platinum Football Club. Matthew Sibanda will be the new chairman of the company in a move that will see a more distinct separation of roles and responsibilities for the club’s business unit and football side. FC Platinum secretary-general Benson Virimayi retained his post with added responsibilities as governor representing the club across football bodies they are affiliated to. But there were changes to the treasurer’s post where Petros Ngorima was replaced by Garikai Mugova from FC Platinum Holdings. Ngorima will now join the panel of advisors as committee member. Although Mawere will not be part of the new structure, it was revealed that club patron, President Mnangagwa, had bestowed him the honour of club life president and with a position into the FC Platinum council of elders as recognition for his excellent work during his tenure.