The Herald Frequently asked questions Are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure COVID-19 disease? While some Western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of COVID-19, there is no evidence that they prevent or cure the disease. WHO does not recommend self-medication with any medicines, including antibiotics, as a prevention or cure for COVID-19. However, there are several ongoing clinical trials that include both Western and traditional medicines. Should I wear a mask to protect myself? Only wear a mask if you are ill with COVID-19 symptoms (especially coughing) or looking after someone who may have COVID-19. Disposable face mask can only be used once. There is a worldwide shortage of masks, so WHO urges people to use masks wisely. Can human beings become infected with COVID-19 from animal source? Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in animals. Occasionally, people get infected with these viruses, which may then spread to other people. For example, SARS-CoV was associated with civet cats and MERS-CoV is transmitted by dromedary camels. Possible animal sources of COVID-19 have not yet been confirmed. To protect yourself, such as when visiting live animal markets, avoid direct contact with animals and surfaces in contact with animals. Ensure good food safety practices at all times. Can I catch COVID-19 from my pet? No. There is no evidence that companion animals or pets such as cats and dogs have been infected or could spread the virus that causes COVID-19. How long does the virus survive on surface? It is not certain how long the virus that causes COVID-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. Studies suggest that coronaviruses (including preliminary information on the COVID-19 virus) may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. This may vary under different conditions. Is it safe to receive package from any area where COVID-19 has been reported? Yes. The likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes COVID-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low. — WHO. 