The Herald Sports Reporter
TENDAI CHATARA and Ryan Burl have fully recovered from injuries and have been named in the squads to face visiting English county cricket sides Derbyshire and Durham. The two players were part of two strong squads set to engage the touring sides across three formats, starting this weekend. Chatara was omitted from the Test squad when Zimbabwe hosted Sri Lanka for two matches in the longer version of the game. Burl recently underwent a surgery procedure for groin and abdominal wall repair. Their return will give them a fighting chance ahead for a place back into the Chevrons ahead of the arrival of Ireland next month for a limited overs series. The Zimbabwe Select side picked to take on Derbyshire in two T20 matches, two 50-over games and two three-day fixtures at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo includes Under-19 stars Wesley Madhevere, Milton Shumba and Tadiwanashe Marumani. Luke Jongwe, who has been in a rich vein of form on the domestic front, has also been named in that squad alongside Zimbabwe Test captain, Sean Williams, and the experienced duo of Elton Chigumbura and Peter Moor. Meanwhile, the Chairman’s XI side that will face Durham in two three-day matches scheduled for Harare Sports Club boasts seven players who featured in Zimbabwe’s recent Test match against Bangladesh. Kevin Kasuza, Prince Masvaure, Brian Mudzinganyama, Victor Nyauchi, Carl Mumba, Ainsley Ndlovu and Regis Chakabva are part of that squad. Stuart Matsikenyeri will coach the Zimbabwe Select team, while Douglas Hondo will be in charge of the Chairman’s XI side. Led by former Zimbabwe captain and coach, Dave Houghton, who is their head of cricket, Derbyshire arrived in Harare on Monday for their first visit to the country. Durham, who toured Zimbabwe in the 1991/92 season, are expected to land in the capital on Friday. SQUADS Zimbabwe Select: Brian Chari, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Wesley Madhevere, Milton Shumba, Sean Williams, Peter Moor, Joylord Gumbie, Elton Chigumbura, Luke Jongwe, Faraz Akram, Neville Madziva, Richard Ngarava, Charlton Tshuma, Tendai Chisoro, Wellington Masakadza, Ernest Masuku, Tadiwanashe Marumani Chairman’s XI: Kevin Kasuza, Prince Masvaure, Brian Mudzinganyama, Remembrance Nyathi, Tarisai Musakanda, Ryan Burl, Roy Kaia, Tinashe Nenhunzi, Victor Nyauchi, Tendai Chatara, Carl Mumba, Ainsley Ndlovu, William Mashinge, Brandon Mavuta, Tapiwa Mufudza, Johnathan Campbell, Shingirai Masakadza