The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter ZORA music proponent Leonard “Karikoga” Zhakata says he is ready to perform for one person if need be. He said this  amid reports that his shows were always a flop. In a recent interview, Zhakata said he was not moved by low attendance. “I am very much surprised by these rumours that I am abandoning local shows for regional shows, as it is said people no longer attend my shows. “I do shows everywhere and two weeks ago I was in Mutare at Club Mandisa where I performed according to my schedule and people say what they want. It is difficult to please everyone, hence our job is to entertain and minister the word of God.” Commenting on low attendances at some of his shows, Zhakata said he was prepared to play for even one person. “There is no local artiste yet who records full houses every week,” he said. “Sometimes it is a good day, sometimes a bad day, but believe you me, it is wishful thinking that my shows always flop. “I have fans who even drive to where I am playing and again I am even ready to play for even one person. Music and talent is not about what the media or John, Peter say, it is about how you deliver and prove to people.” Zhakata said he had planned to hold shows at festivals in South Africa, but put them on hold because of Covid-19. “I was invited to take part in some festivals scheduled to take place in May in Polokwane and Port Elizabeth, but I am doubting and sceptical about them because of the coronavirus,” he said. “I am yet to get clear details from the organisers about what is the position, together with other shows that were scheduled to happen in weeks to come have been put on hold. “The issue of coronavirus has affected a lot of artistes and we should follow the correct procedure. For now, it is more about local events and if they are suspended we should respect that.” Zhakata said he was working on albums which were to be released any day. “I am not working on one album, but albums, and I cannot tell you when I am releasing them,” he said. “I always deliver what I have promised.”