The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
WARREN Park-Mabelreign district has expressed confidence ahead of the Harare athletics provincial meet to be held this Friday at Eaglesvale. They had their district finals last Friday at Tynwald High School with three of their clusters competing in various track and field events. Cluster A, made up of Oakdale, Dzivarasekwa 1 High and 2, Living Waters, Mother Touch and Corridors, topped the medals table with 50 gold, 35 silver and 21 bronze. In second place was Cluster B consisting of Christ Ministries, Ellis Robins, Mabelreign Girls High, Cornelius Hope Academy Secondary School, Tynwald and Warren Park High. They amassed 91 medals including 25 gold. Cluster C with 88 medals were third. It was made up of Kuwadzana 1 High, Kuwadzana 2 High, Kuwadzana 3 High and Pinewood. Dzivarasekwa 1 High’s Purpose Wadawarewa, who came first in 1 500m and helped the 4x400m relay team win gold, said apart from competing, the competition provided a platform to appreciate their diversity as students. “It was a tough competition, I was nervous before the race but when I got the baton I did my best because people from my cluster were expecting me to do well. “So, I tried my best and we got the results. “I just love that when we meet for such competitions not everyone wins but we are here to interact as students and appreciate that we are different, some are not academically talented but are good in sport. “So, we get to encourage each other,” said Wadawarewa. Samukeliso Ndebele from Dzivarasekwa 2 High also had an outstanding performance, winning the 15-and-Under-girls 100m, 200m, long jump and was third in high jump. “Last year I was second at the Cossasa games in 100m. I am looking forward to go to the competition again this year and I will make sure I make the team. “My time has been improving from last year although I still need to work on my technique. It was a good competition though,” said Ndebele. The winning athlete in each event will represent the district at the provincial meet on Friday. Head in charge for the district, Shepherd Muradzikwa, who graced the show, said they were looking at a top two finish. “I think position two, we could even get position one but I am sure position two is ours at the provincial. “We are basing our strength on the girls, mostly. “The boys, it’s Prince Edward and normally they are the ones who excel because they actually groom boys and they select and give scholarships, that’s where we lag behind Prince Edward,” Muradzikwa said.