The Herald LONDON. — Jurgen Klopp insisted the best of Liverpool’s season may still be to come despite a third defeat in four games saw them crash out of the FA Cup 2-0 at the hands of Chelsea on Tuesday night. Klopp made seven changes to the side beaten for the first time in 45 English Premier League football games at Watford on Saturday, but still named a far stronger XI than the youthful teams that had seen off Everton and Shrewsbury to reach the fifth round. However, goals from Willian and Ross Barkley gave Frank Lampard’s men a much-needed lift at Stamford Bridge. “Losing 2-0 is not good, but it is relatively easy to explain. We made two massive mistakes around the goals,” said Klopp. First Atletico, then THAT collapse at Watford, now this. Glass half full? The FA Cup isn’t that high on Liverpool’s list of priorities anyway. The English Premier League title is pretty much wrapped up — only a supreme optimist would bet against them landing the four wins they need to create history — and a side this good does not lose their class overnight. That Champions League showdown at home to Atletico Madrid next week, however, does take on an entirely new complexion. Jurgen Klopp won’t panic. Nor will the assembled avengers in the Anfield dressing room. But, given their recent form, Liverpool’s rivals will be acutely aware of the seeds of doubt now planted in the minds of some of the younger players and the B-listers. The recent run is also a stark reminder of the importance of Jordan Henderson to this Liverpool team. After Dejan Lovren laboured at Watford last weekend it was said that stability would return to the Reds’ back-line once Joe Gomez was fit again. Yet, without Henderson’s leadership and industry in midfield the jigsaw still isn’t quite complete. So, that’s now three defeats in four and a Liverpool side for whom the winter break proved a hindrance rather than a help. Their momentum has gone. Their belief is clearly still there but they are no longer imposing their will on rival teams. Chelsea had won more games on the road than at the Bridge before this. But they would have had five had Mason Mount and Olivier Giroud not hit the bar and Pedro not been denied in a one-on-one with Adrian. “It is not the best three weeks of the whole season but it is a chance to make it the best three weeks now and that is the plan,” said Klopp. “Nobody has to feel sorry for us, we will win football games and that is what we want to do on Saturday.” A run of five wins in 16 league games and a 3-0 thrashing at home by Bayern Munich in the first leg of their Champions League last 16 tie last week meant the pressure was on Chelsea to keep their hopes of silverware this season alive. — AFP.