The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S long distance runners, hoping for a crack at the Olympic Games, took a step further in their build-up to the qualifying races when they competed in the Harry Gwala 21,1km race over the weekend in South Africa. The main event was the 42,2km race. But most local athletes took part in the 21,1km and the focus was on the trio of Isaac Mpofu, Ngonidzashe Ncube and Ethel Sibanda, who have been short-listed for qualification for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. The three athletes did not disappoint with Ncube coming third in the men’s Open category in 1 hour 1 minute 20 seconds, behind South Africa’s Tebello Ramakongoana, who won the race in 1 hour 18 seconds on Sunday. In second place was Misheck Sibanda in a time of 1 hour 1 minute 6 seconds. Mpofu was fifth in 1 hour 2 minutes 8 seconds. The race gave the athletes a chance to measure their preparations and to identify areas they need to improve ahead of their trip to Netherlands in April where they are expected to compete for qualification. Mpofu was pleased with his time but said there was still room for improvement. “Competition was tough, a tough terrain, too, but I coped well with a time below 1:05 which I targeted. My time was good but I still have to work hard in training. “I think we are going to go for a 10km for more speed,” Mpofu said. Ethel Sibanda was sixth in the Women Open in 1 hour 17 minutes 44 seconds. For Sibanda the area of concern remains her strength and improving her time as well. “It was very tough due to down run, so I should also train on such courses. I managed to improve a lot because my best time for 21km was 1 hour 24 minutes but now (I ran) 1 hour 17 minutes, which is good. “I need to work hard, especially on strength. I realised that I am weak in terms of the downhill. I need to train on hills. I need to do also tempo run, so that I can reduce time,” said Sibanda. Other distance runners that the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe are pinning their hopes on are Fortunate Chidzivo, Munyaradzi Jari and Rutendo Nyahora, who came second in the Harry Gwala marathon on Sunday in 2 hours 44 minutes 02 seconds. In first place was Loveness Madziva with a time of 2 hours 43 minutes 24 seconds. Nyahora represented the country at the previous Games in Brazil, in 2016, and is looking at making her second appearance at the Olympics. Zimbabwean long-distance runners have had some good results at major international events with the likes of Cuthbert Nyasango and Wirimai Juwawo coming seventh and 15th respectively, at the 2012 Olympic Games. In 2014, Nyasango set a new national record when he ran 2 hours 9 minutes 52 seconds to finish third at the Prague marathon in Czech Republic. Other local athletes present at Sunday’s race included Patience Murowe, who was second in the Women Open in 1 hour 14 minutes 38 seconds. She was followed by Rudo Mhonderwa and Anna Bungu in third and fourth positions. South Africa’s Jenet Mbhele was the first to cross the finish line in 1 hour 11 minutes 36 seconds.