The Herald LONDON. — A growing number of Premier League clubs reportedly want to abandon the current season, despite last week agreeing to extend the campaign indefinitely. All football in England has been suspended until April 30 due to the coronavirus outbreak which has brought the world of sport to a complete standstill. However, it has since emerged a memo has been sent that the league won’t resume as scheduled. Now senior figures in English club football believe there is ‘‘no place for sport at the moment’’, according to The Athletic. ‘‘You look at the people sitting around the Premier League table by Skype; their egos cannot sustain a mirror being held up to them,’’ they said. ‘‘The fact is they are not as important as a Tesco delivery driver at this time. We run a game. No more, no less.’’ Liverpool need only two more wins to confirm their first league title since 1990 and hold a 25-point lead over Manchester City. But plans to cancel the season — which would require the support of 14 of the 20 Premier League clubs — would scupper hopes of ending their 30-year long drought. All leagues below the National Football League North and South have already been called off, while the future of the Football League and National League are shrouded in uncertainty. One high-ranking club official added: ‘‘It’s absolutely clear what is going to happen. It’s a worldwide pandemic. ‘‘You just start (the Premier League season) again and there are very few losers. Liverpool, I know. ‘‘But in the grand scheme of things, honestly, it really doesn’t matter. You’ve just got to start again. ‘‘This (Covid-19) is going to get worse here (in Britain), so it’s not about players returning to training. If we all stay at home and self-isolate for the next two, three months, we’re going to get through this quite simply.’’ The official added; ‘‘We look like petulant, ridiculous children now. I passionately believe what we’re doing is wrong.’’ He fears it won’t be feasible to play the final nine games of the league season, even in September, and believes the league campaign should end whatever the consequences, with a new one beginning in the autumn. The next Premier League shareholders meeting is scheduled for April 3 with a new date for its comeback expected to be announced after officials accepted that, with the country in lockdown and players unable to train, April 30 is not a realistic prospect. The UK’s coronavirus death toll jumped up by 113 to 578 on Thursday in the biggest daily rise yet as officials confirmed 2 000 further cases. There has not been a game played in the English top flight since March 9 when Leicester City beat Aston Villa 4-0, with fixtures falling by the wayside in the last three weeks. The first game to be called off was Manchester City against Arsenal on March 11, and then the entire league was postponed on March 13 after Gunners boss Mikel Arteta and Chelsea winger Callum Hudson-Odoi tested positive for coronavirus. FA chairman Greg Clarke reportedly told the Premier League earlier this month he does not believe the domestic football season will be completed because of the pandemic, while West Ham vice-chairwoman Karren Brady has claimed ‘‘the whole season should be null and void’’. Sportsmail revealed this week that broadcasters are exploring plans to televise all Saturday 3pm fixtures if the season continues behind closed doors. When the sport is permitted to recommence, there is a growing resignation that games will be played with no fans due to Government guidelines on social distancing. It is understood Premier League and EFL broadcasters, Sky Sports and BT Sport, have discussed the prospect of making matches kicking off at 3pm on Saturdays available to watch as part of viewers’ subscription packages. An FA statement after last week’s meeting read: ‘‘The FA, Premier League, EFL and women’s professional game, together with the PFA and LMA, understand we are in unprecedented times and our thoughts are with everyone affected by Covid-19. ‘‘We’re united in our commitment to finding ways of resuming the 2019-20 football season and ensuring all domestic and European club league and cup matches are played as soon as it is safe and possible to do so. ‘‘We’ve collectively supported UEFA in postponing EURO 2020 to create space in the calendar to ensure domestic and European club league and cup matches have an increased opportunity to be played and, in doing so, maintain the integrity of each competition. ‘‘The FA’s Rules and Regulations state that ‘the season shall terminate not later than the 1 June’ and ‘each competition shall, within the limit laid down by the FA, determine the length of its own playing season.’ ‘‘However, our Board has agreed for this limit to be extended indefinitely for the 2019-20 season in relation to professional football. Additionally, we’ve collectively agreed that the professional game in England will be further postponed until no earlier than Thursday April 30. ‘‘The progress of Covid-19 remains unclear and we can reassure everyone the health and welfare of players, staff and supporters are our priority. ‘‘We will continue to follow Government advice and work collaboratively to keep the situation under review and explore all options available to find ways of resuming the season when the conditions allow. ‘‘We would all like to re-emphasise that our thoughts are with everyone affected by COVID-19.’’ — Mailonline.