The Herald AUGUSTA (The Augusta Chronicle) — With the International Olympic Committee’s decision to postpone the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, athletes faced mixed emotions. Prior to the announcement, Canada and Australia had already said they weren’t sending athletes to Japan. Three-time Olympic shot put thrower Reese Hoffa, a Lakeside and University of Georgia standout, said the IOC made the right decision, but added am empathetic tone toward the competitors. ‘‘I certainly feel for these athletes,’’he said. For athletes like Pardon Ndhlovu, the biggest problem was the amount of unknowns leading into the Games. Ndhlovu, a former Augusta University grad assistant, competed in the 2016 games in Rio de Janeiro for his home country of Zimbabwe and is trying to qualify for the this upcoming Olympics. Ndhlovu said the news was a relief because it gives him more time to train and qualify. He planned on running in the Boston Marathon in April to qualify, but the race was postponed until September. ‘‘About three weeks ago when all the races were being postponed, even local races, we were just sitting and waiting to hear,’’ he said. ‘‘At first it was devastating and I was taking it one day at a time. I sat down with my coach and asked him what to do. He said, ‘I don’t know what to say. Try to stay healthy, reduce mileage and have fun with it.’ It also allowed me to make appointments to address any injuries.’’ This situation is magnified because prospective Olympians are undergoing delayed or canceled seasons. Hoffa, who now runs a throwing academy in Athens, said this type of delay can affect athletes in different ways. ‘‘I know most of them are eager to get back to competing,’’ he said. ‘ ‘Some have been waiting for 2020 for years and depending on how it affects their peak, some will need that extra year. Being a year older affects the body.’’ For Ndhlovu, the parallels between 2016 and 2020 stand out. The 2016 Games were plagued with concern over the Zika virus, compelling high-profile athletes to withdraw from competition. ‘‘It definitely feels like deja vu,’’ he said. ‘‘Some countries were considering not sending their athletes to Rio in 2016 for the sake of their health and this was the same kind of situation, but different scales. With the global impact,severity and devastation affecting more countries and more people, this was certainly the best decision to make for the safety of all involved.’’