The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
FOLLOWING their sensational first win last weekend, against one of the seasoned teams in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League, Green Fuel Angels are fancying their chances when they take on Glow Petroleum in Chisumbanje today. Of the four teams promoted into the top league, they are the only side who have recorded a win. Green Buffaloes and Support Unit have both lost their first two games while Khami Queens have played and lost one match. Green Fuel Angels last overpowered Black Rhinos and it has been a confidence-booster to the side. They face Glow Petroleum today with coach, Farai Mlambo, convinced they were in a good position for another upset. “We are prepared, we have hope that we are going to win this time, this week we expect to do well for the sake of our supporters and sponsor. “We have suffered some injuries along the way but we are hoping everyone will be fit. “Our centre, Delta Bitu, and our goalkeeper, Marian Chiwawa, got injured. But, we have replacements in the event they won’t be able to play,” said Mlambo. Khami Queens host Flow Angels and will be looking for their first set of full points in the league. Green Buffaloes face Beta Queens in a tricky encounter at Chikurubi this afternoon. Log leaders, Correctional Queens, are up against Falcon at Manyame Air Base in what promises to be an interesting tie. Correctional, who are the reigning champions, have won their first two matches and are seeking to maintain their unbeaten run. But, they should expect tough opposition from their hosts who are coming from a mid-week victory against Mutare City. Fixtures Today: Platinum Queens v Lusumbami Queens (Zvishavane, 2pm), Goldreef v Mutare City (Girls College, 2pm), Green Fuel Angels v Glow Petroleum (Chisumbanje, 2pm), Mambas ZRP v Tenax Queens (Morris Depot, 2pm), Falcon Airforce Queens v Correctional Queens (Manyame Air Base, 2pm), Green Buffaloes v Beta Queens (Chikurubi, 2pm), Khami Queens v Flow Angels (Khami, 2pm). Tomorrow: Khami Queens v Mutare City (Khami, 9am).