The Herald LONDON.  — Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho defended Eric Dier after the England international stormed into the stands following his side’s FA Cup exit to Norwich on Wednesday night. Dier’s confrontation with supporters after Wednesday’s defeat to Norwich in the FA Cup is now being investigated by the FA. Dier was filmed jogging along the touchline at full-time before leaping over the advertising hoardings and then clambering over seats, before appearing to target one person, who he was unable to reach as other supporters became involved. The Metropolitan Police have been made aware of the incident involving Dier, but no complaints or allegations have been made. Dier climbed over rows of seats to confront a fan, who had allegedly been involved in an altercation with the player’s brother. The incident rounded off a terrible night for Tottenham, who saw another chance of silverware slip away 3-2 on penalties after a 1-1 draw against the side bottom of the English Premier League. “When someone insults you and your family is there and your family gets involved with somebody who is insulting you, in this case a younger brother, I think Eric did what we professionals cannot do but, I repeat, probably everyone of us would do,” said Mourinho. “I am with the player and I understand the player.” Dier scored his penalty in the shootout, but Erik Lamela, Troy Parrott and Gedson Fernandes missed from the spot to condemn Spurs to a fourth straight defeat in all competitions. On the prospect of the club taking disciplinary action against Dier, Mourinho added: “If the club does that I will not agree, but he did wrong.” Jan Vertonghen headed Tottenham into an early lead, but Mourinho’s decision to hand 36-year-old goalkeeper Michel Vorm his first appearance of the season backfired. The Dutchman spilt a long-range effort from Kenny McLean and Josip Drmic bundled home the rebound to level 12 minutes from time. Both sides then tired badly in extra-time, but neither could find a winner and Mourinho again blamed his stretched resources without the injured Harry Kane and Son Heung-min to injury for defeat. “Some of my players were really in trouble and they made an incredible effort to try,” said Mourinho. “I don’t have one single negative feeling towards my players. I can cope with negative moments in football, but I feel really sorry for my players.” —AFP.