The Herald LONDON.  — Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta feared who he might have infected when he tested positive for the coronavirus, but said yesterday he has completed his recovery and is ready to return to work with the English Premier League football side. Arsenal announced Arteta’s positive test a fortnight ago on March 12, which ultimately led to the halt in the season as his side prepared to face Manchester City. The Spaniard believes he contracted the virus after the team’s Europa League clash against Greek side Olympiakos, whose owner had the coronavirus, in late February. “We are in a world here where everything is social media, everything is a WhatsApp text,” the Spaniard said. “But how important is touching each other, feeling each other and hugging each other? I miss that with a lot of the people I love. ‘‘We have to be emotionally more open. We have to tell each other what we are feeling.” Arteta reported feeling unwell after it was confirmed Evangelos Marinakis – the owner of Greek side Olympiakos, who played Arsenal in the Europa League in February – had coronavirus on March 12. On Thursday Arteta said he was feeling “completely recovered” and urged people to follow the government’s advice on staying at home. “It’s one virus that is putting the world aside and it’s transforming everything that we prioritise in life. So we have to take that lesson,” he told the Arsenal website. “We cannot just in two or three months’ time – if we are able to get over this quickly – forget about this, because it’s so important.” Arsenal players were due to report for training earlier this week after competing a two-week isolation period, but their return has been postponed. Arteta said his main concern was his three children after his wife and their nanny contracted the virus. Arteta self-isolated in a room and a bathroom for two or three days but his wife fell ill shortly afterwards. “I am a very positive person and I try to take the moment to say OK, what can we take from this?” he said. “I haven’t had the opportunity to wake up with my kids and dedicate my time and listen to them. “We are in the household together and we are really enjoying those moments as well.” — Reuters.