The Herald PRETORIA. — Zimbabwe’s Themba Gorimbo defended his EFC welterweight title against the previously undefeated challenger from Australia, Lyle Karam, in the first EFC event of the year at Time Square here on Saturday evening. In the first stanza, Gorimbo — who is proving to be a hit on the Extreme Fighting Championship scene — controlled the action with leg and head kicks until Karam found a chink in his armour and wobbled the champion. Gorimbo shot the double leg in a follow-up flurry from Karam and ended in a neck breaking guillotine choke. With his self-proclaimed ‘‘Mamba Mentality’’ he worked his way out to end the round on top. The second round began in a hurry, with Karam getting the take down this time and ending in a vulnerable position. Gorimbo slowly synched up the triangle choke to seal the deal and continue his reign as the welterweight champion. “For Africa to be recognised in this sport, it needs a real African,” bellowed the champion after the fight. “Someone that has survived Africa.” Magorimbo is the reigning Zimbabwe Sportsperson of the Year. Last year, the man affectionately known as ‘‘The Answer’’ told our sister newspaper, The Sunday Mail, that life was not always rosy for him. “It feels really normal to be a champion because I have worked for a long time for this,’’ he said. ‘‘l visualised this so many times, so it’s normal now that it is a reality. My EFC journey started after watching the movie ‘Never Back Down’. I told myself that I could do what the main actor in that film, Sean Faris, was doing.’’ Hailing from Masvingo, he once lived on the streets of Johannesburg with his younger brother Takunda, moving from place to place until they found refuge at a Johannesburg church. He started training at Panther Fighting Arts and Fitness Academy. “My motivation to succeed was fuelled as I watched future competitors train along the beach front in Cape Town whilst I fought to make ends meet as a gardener. During this time I was competing as an amateur, pushing for my first big win in order to get to the EFC Hexagon. You cannot curse hard work, I have worked very hard for this. I want to be the best welterweight fighter. “Ever since my first professional fight against Sydney Mokgolo, which I won with a dislocated shoulder, I have never looked back. ‘‘That made me believe in the power of never giving up.’’ He might be a tough fighter, who is now living his dream, but Gorimbo has never forgotten where he came from. Last year, he donated R30 000 from his prize money towards the payment of school fees for underprivileged children in his home province of Masvingo. — EFC