The Herald Africa Moyo Deputy News Editor
MDC-ALLIANCE leader Mr Nelson Chamisa yesterday praised the decision by President Mnangagwa to lockdown the country for 21 days from Monday as a measure to contain Covid-19. President Mnangagwa, in an address to the nation last night, said only essential service providers such as pharmacies and food retailers will be open, together with municipalities to collect refuse and provide water. In a statement of appreciation of Government’s initiatives, Mr Chamisa said the lockdown was a wise move. “The decision to lockdown Zimbabwe is necessary, wise and supported,” he posted on his Twitter handle. “We are in circumstances of a catastrophe. There is only one Zimbabwe. We are one people. “Politics aside, we must unite to save lives. Measures to test, detect the virus and cushion the vulnerable essential! #ZimLOC.” The party’s top officials, including secretary-general Mr Charlton Hwende, urged the nation to comply with the President’s announcement. “We must all comply with the decision to stay at home from Monday for 21 days,” he tweeted. “We are facing a very serious pandemic that needs all Zimbabweans to unite and join hands in order to curtail the spread of this virus. “Team Zimbabwe will win together this war against Covid-19.” Mr Chamisa’s views come after he had earlier given an impression that his party did not support the measures announced by President Mnangagwa to contain Covid-19. The MDC-Alliance leader’s appreciative comments come barely a month after other top members of his party realised the folly of defying national programmes and joined in the national clean-up campaigns held every first Friday of each month. The party’s senior officials including, Mr Hwende, took part in the clean-up at Overspill Shopping Centre in Epworth last month, after months of opposing the campaign. MDC-T president Dr Thokozani Khupe also welcomed the total lockdown, adding that the rising deaths across the world demonstrate that nations were fighting an “invisible enemy”. She said the enemy requires a huge army in order to be defeated. “Therefore, every Zimbabwean is a soldier from now going forward and we need strong ammunition. “Our biggest ammunition right now is heeding to the call by the President of the Republic which is to stay at home for 21 days starting on Monday,” she said. Dr Khupe emphasised the need for social distancing, practicing good hygiene and washing hands with soap all the time.