The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — South Africa’s top football bosses Danny Jordaan and Irvin Khoza have put their differences aside to combat the challenges posed by COVID-19, following a meeting with government. The SAFA and PSL bosses, who worked together to deliver the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa, have been known to have their differences over the years, with the two bodies having come to blows several times in the past. Jordaan and Khoza, who both currently serve on the national association’s executive committee, were initially set to meet last week Tuesday to map the way forward following their meeting with government last Monday, but this was cancelled and prompted SAFA to impose directives without discussions with its special member. However, the inevitable meeting was eventually held this Tuesday after the two senior administrators were brought together by Minister of Sport, Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa. Mthethwa, who last week gave the go-ahead to the PSL to continue with their season behind closed doors despite opposition from SAFA, met with the two leaders to resolve their issues. It was earlier today announced that a truce was called, with football expected to be the biggest winner as they agreed to work together towards resolutions around some of the pertinent challenges faced by both parties during the coronavirus pandemic. Among these is presumably agreeing on a suitable date to lift the suspension of all football activities, which was earlier imposed by the national association, so as to avoid a potentially devastating aftermath on PSL clubs and stakeholders once the worst of the crisis is over. Details of the way forward was not issued by Mthethwa, but it is with great anticipation that all stakeholders seek to learn just where a unified Khoza and Jordaan may lead South African football going forward. Meanwhile, former Chippa United coach Norman Mapeza says he could return to coach in Super Diski. Mapeza surprised the local football fraternity when he resigned from his post after only five months at the helm of Chippa United. The former FC Platinum coach has since returned home to Zimbabwe. “I don’t have regrets. I will always be grateful to the club for giving me the opportunity to coach them,” Mapeza told KickOff.com. “I am just resting at home for now. Nothing much. I would not mind to come back to South Africa if I get offers. I have no problem. I really enjoyed my five months in the Absa Premiership.” Chippa have since appointed former Orlando Pirates interim coach Rhulani Mokwena as their head coach on loan until the end of the season. — Kick-Off.