The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE Confederation of African Football say they will remain vigilant of the threat posed by coronavirus ahead of major football events, including the CHAN finals in Cameroon. The Warriors will be part of the show in Cameroon. The continental football mother body yesterday issued a statement, just hours after Cameroon confirmed its first case of the deadly communicable disease. The Warriors are also scheduled to travel to Algeria, which has become the epicentre of the disease in Africa after 17 cases were confirmed this week, for a 2021 AFCON qualifier this month. “CAF is following with great attention the evolution of the situation of this pandemic affecting our continent. ‘‘Eight major African football countries have reported cases to date: Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, Cameroon and South Africa. “CAF has mandated the Medical Committee to monitor the evolution of this disease and to set up measures to protect the health of players and all actors of the game. “A team has been set up, under the authority of the CAF President, made up of experts from various fields, particularly medical, who are essentially responsible for the health of the players and the members of the African football family,” said CAF in a statement. Togo yesterday became the ninth African country to be affected after they recorded their first case. There have been fears, after the cases surpassed the 100 000-mark globally inside two months, forcing authorities to cancel some sporting events and games. CAF, however, said their events slated for the coming weeks, which also include the AFCON qualifiers and the interclub finals, will go ahead as planned. But, in extreme cases, they have left the door open for authorities to either postpone or play the games behind closed doors. “We are not extremely worried but remain vigilant with regards to future matches and tournaments such as the CAF Champions League, CAF Confederation Cup and the final tournament of the Total African Nations Championship (CHAN) scheduled to take place in Cameroon from 4-25 April 2020. “The team is in touch with the countries organising these matches and reports in due time on updates to the Executive Committee. “If the situation requires and in agreement with the countries concerned, matches behind closed doors, postponements or even cancellations are envisaged. ‘‘In the meantime, an advisory to the actors of the game is being promulgated in conformity with guidelines from the World Health Organisation. ‘‘Also keep up to date with the latest information on the COVID-19 outbreak, available from the WHO website and from national and local public health authorities,” read the CAF statement. Meanwhile, CBS reports that as countries around the globe battle to contain and combat the coronavirus, its impact on sports continues to increase. As the virus spreads across the world, there will Champions League and Europa League matches played without any spectators to try and prevent further spreading of the illness. On Thursday, UEFA announced that the Atalanta at Valencia Champions League tie and the Getafe/Inter Milan Europa League match set for next week will be played behind closed doors. Other matches may face similar fates. On Tuesday, France’s minister of sport Roxana Maracineanu said that Paris Saint-Germain’s home match against Borussia Dortmund in the second leg of the Champions League round of 16 on March 11 could be played behind closed doors. This comes after France recently surpassed 100 confirmed cases of the virus, according to Le Monde. Some games across the world last week, including the big Juventus-Inter Milan Serie A match — were postponed as the virus spreads across Italy, Asian, Europe and North America. UEFA aren’t panicking over the virus when it comes to Euro 2020 preparation, according to Sky Sports. That tournament begins in just under 100 days. Just on Tuesday, UEFA held a large gathering in Amsterdam for the UEFA Nations League draw.