The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Reporter Some local bars have defied the ban on public gatherings of over 100 people, and hosted most of their events as normal. Government announced that gatherings of over 100 people should be stopped to minimise the spread of Covid-19, which has claimed over 7 000 people across the world. Most bars recorded their normal number of revellers, with some even hosting live shows. Melfort Bars and Surrey Braai Area, along the Harare-Mutare Highway, had over 100 people while Mtangaz Highway Escape along the same road appeared to be a destination of choice. Apama Dance Group entertained hundreds of fun lovers at Melfort. A number of revellers also defied the plea to avoid shaking hands and hugging each other. Social distancing was also not observed as people could be seen discussing close to one another. Although Mtangaz management refused to comment on the absence of hand sanitisers or other Covid-19 prevention measures, revellers were quick to point out that the virus only affects other races. Some bars that went ahead with operations as usual included Eclipse Night Club located next to Parliament Building in Harare’s central business district. Zimdancehall sensation, Killer T went ahead with his planned party in Mbare although the organisers said it was a strictly by invitation party and designed for not more than 100 people. Dubbed “All Black Party”, the event even attracted celebrities, business moguls and socialites such as DJ Towers, Stylz, Teemak and Genius Kadungure, among others. In Mbare, people went about their business. At the party, there were many uninvited guests that roamed around the venue. At the Woods Club, at Longchen Plaza, it business as usual as most revellers went through their paces, although there were no more than 100 people. However, Fewer people were at Zindoga Shopping Centre in Waterfalls, Harare, compared to the past few weeks, amid speculation revellers were heeding the call to avoid unnecessary movements. Covid-19 has so far affected two people in Zimbabwe.