The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
MOST Rainbow Amateur Netball League clubs have suspended their programmes to protect their athletes and staff. The league was put on hold due to coronavirus pandemic. Defending champions Correctional Queens’ coach, Christopher Simeon, yesterday confirmed they had suspended their programme. “We have cancelled our training sessions and advised my players to exercise on their own to maintain physical fitness. “The length of the break will determine what we need to do when the situation normalises and some players lack the self-discipline to train own their own,” said Simeon. Hwange-based side, Lusumbami, also suspended their activities this week. Club chairperson, Thembinkosi Muremba, said they have to follow safety and health guidelines. “It has come to our attention that there is need to consider and adhere to safety and health guidelines, which have been announced by the Government, as a way of reducing and controlling the spread of CVID-19 among ourselves. “Therefore, there will be no training sessions and games until the situation is under control,” Muremba said. It’s the same scenario with Green Fuel Angels and coach Farai Mlambo, who had hoped to return to training on Wednesday after a week’s break, said there will be more work when action resumes. “We were forced to let the players go because of the situation. We have told them to stay home until further notice. “I am in touch with the team and I have advised them to keep training at home, take some jogs and stretches so that when we come back we don’t start from scratch.’’ ZDF coach, Joel Sibanda, said it was important for everyone to adhere to the safety measures. “This is the right thing to do, for the safety of our athletes. We are not certain of the situation, it seems it’s getting worse, we have victims. “So, it’s better to protect each other. “It’s difficult, we are just coming from off-season and now we are taking a break again, when we resume, we start from scratch. “For now, everyone stays home and has to follow every safety measure,” Sibanda said.