The Herald Sports Reporter
THE effects of the coronavirus pandemic is being felt across the globe in all sectors. And, as part of efforts in the fight against the virus, the Government have scaled down the ongoing renovations at the National Sports Stadium. The country’s biggest stadium is undergoing renovations following the ban on all local stadiums by the Confederation of African Football. The CAF decision triggered action, at various levels, to address the crisis with Harare City Council also springing into action at Rufaro and Gwanzura. They have also indicated they are also taking measures, in light of the coronavirus pandemic, to protect their workers. Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation deputy minister, Tino Machakaire, said they have had to look at the health implications. “At the moment, our engineers are on the ground but we have downsized as we are fully cognisant of the health implications of having too many people at one place, at once,” Machakaire said. “We have previously reiterated the need to take full advantage of the CAF postponement of matches to finish off the work at the National Sports Stadium. “But, that was before the country had confirmed cases of this rampaging virus. “The President (Mnangagwa) has since discouraged irresponsible behaviour, both on social and professional levels. “We have taken heed and we will continue to do the work in accordance with what the President has said as well as per health experts’ guidelines. “We will, however, continue with all the renovations at the giant stadium. Believe me, when things revert to normal, the stadium will be up to the required standard. “In fact, as we speak, the renovations, as recommended by CAF, are almost complete. “What we are trying to do is address all the areas, even those which were not flagged by CAF.’’ Harare City Council spokesperson, Michael Chideme, said health comes first and they have taken measures to ensure their workers were also safe. “Scaling down begins on Monday. Works continue, but with limited staff, to avoid human contact and to observe social distance. “This is a disease that is unprecedented, we have never had such a disease, so for us to start complaining, and whining about COVId-19, I don’t think it’s fair because the most important and fairest thing is to preserve lives. “I think we are looking at lives because the most important thing now is life, nothing else, because we need those workers after COVID-19 is gone. “We want to minimise casualties as much as possible,” said Chideme. ZIFA recently released a list of approved stadiums ahead of the 2020 PSL season and none of the stadiums in Harare were on the list. Gwanzura has not hosted a Premiership match for the past five years.