The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
SPORT is generally in lockdown. But, amid the coronavirus freeze which has crippled the whole world, there have been events behind the scenes in Zimbabwe during the week. Here are six key events for the week: Zimbabwe is part of the larger global family that was supposed to convene in Tokyo, Japan, between July and August this year for the multi-sport quadrennial event. But, with the coronavirus pandemic not showing signs of slowing down, a joint statement from the International Olympic Committee and the Tokyo Organising Committee this week said the Games have been rescheduled to next year. Zimbabwe’s chef de mission for Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, Thabani Gonye, has said the rescheduling of the Games gives them time to reflect. So far, rowing have booked a slot in the men single sculls at the Games while most of the targeted disciplines had been affected as the qualifiers they were targeting were either postponed or cancelled. Boxing missed their chance at the continental qualifier held in Senegal in February. But there is still hope for other sport codes like athletics, swimming, judo and golf. The move to postpone the Olympic Games to next year was generally welcomed but, for athletes who are still pursuing qualification, it meant more anxiety and prolonged uncertainty. Sprinter Ngoni Makusha said the lockdown left his Olympics dream uncertain. The speedster was recently forced to abandon his preparations for the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers in South Africa following a Government decree banning all sporting events in that country. He was supposed to be there training until April 19 and was looking forward to the Africa Senior Championships in June. Another hopeful for the Games is judo and United Kingdom-based Christi-Rose Pretorius who has been working her way to earn qualifying points. Local Premiership clubs, who had scaled down their training programmes in response to the measures to help curb the spread of coronavirus, adopted a complete lockdown this week. All the teams sent their players home and they have given them training programmes. Herentals have been in the eye of the storm for the past few weeks. They were expelled from the Premier Soccer League on Tuesday for taking football matters to court. The boot came just a few days after the ZIFA Appeals Board had ruled in their favour by overturning PSL disciplinary committee verdict that had found them guilty of alleged manipulation in a match-fixing scandal. But, Herentals — who have shown resilience to fight on — found themselves back in the trenches with the latest ruling, in which they were charged with contravening Article 53.1 of the PSL Statutes. They have taken up the matter with the ZIFA Appeals board again because of a number of glaring ommissions related to the decision. The Students managed to dodge another bullet following their acquittal on yet another match-fixing charge brought up by Bulawayo Chiefs. That ruling could, actually, help Herentals as questions are now being asked how the PSL could have acquitted a club that they had already expelled? Newboys Tenax finally got admitted to the league after settling their affiliation dues amounting to $208 000. After spending three decades in the trenches, legendary Zimbabwe coach Sunday “Mhofu” Chidzambwa has finally ended his career as football head coach. The 67-year-old, however, said he had not completely walked away from the game after social media was awash with reports suggesting he had retired for good. Chidzambwa will be open for engagements in an advisory role. Fomer football players based in the United Kingdom have paid tribute to legend Barry Daka. Daka, who also coached the Zimbabwe Under-23 side, died two weeks ago at the age of 71 and was buried at Bulawayo’s Lady Stanley Cemetery. The UK legends, through their Zimbabwean representative, Makwinji Soma-Phiri, handed over their token of condolence, amounting to US$300, to the Daka family.