The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka Arts Reporter
Rising gospel musician Caution Katsuwa is aiming high following the recent release of his debut single titled “God of All Flesh”. The worship track that is fast gaining popularity on different musical platforms. Katsuwa believes nothing can stop him from successfully impacting many souls through his music. “I am really humbled by the way people have received my first single as an individual,” he said. “All along I have been singing and recording with my church choir, but it is now time that I take my career to another level.” Katsuwa believes the sky is the limit. He draws inspiration from personal experiences and the word of God. “I am more of a worshipper and most of my songs are characterised by gratitude, love, hope and faith in God,” he said. “Some of the compositions are birthed through my personal experiences in life and sometimes what I see happening in other people’ lives. “The Bible is my number one inspiration, like this latest track which is drawn from Jeremiah 32:27. It is a song that strengthens a believer that God is able to address any situation that you may encounter because nothing is too hard for him.” The 31-year-old singer said he was working on the video for the fresh track, which he expects to release by mid-year. He is working on other singles that will be released during the course of the year. Katsuwa draws his inspiration from Minister Michael Mahendere and is looking forward to collaborating with him in the near future. “My role model in the music sector is Minister Mahendere,” he said. “His music, apart from being of great quality, is loaded with substance and it ministers to the soul. “He is my mentor and I hope soon I will able to work on a collaboration with him. I also appreciate the support I receive from my wife Edith.” Katsuwa started singing at a tender age, but on a professional scale he first worked with Chitungwiza Harmony Singers from 2007 up to 2010. He then joined the United Family International Church Choir where he is still a member. With the choir, he recorded three songs: “Jesus The Healer”, “There Must Be More” and “Devine Solution”, which are on different albums.