The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
MIDDLEWEIGHT boxer, Charles Manyuchi has been paying particular attention on his weight. He is preparing for a winner-take-all World Boxing Federation and WABA Supreme Unification titles bout against Uganda’s Muhamad Sebyala at the Harare International Conference Centre on April 3. Manyuchi is the WBF defending champion after stopping Argentina’s Diego Gallardo in September last year at the same venue. He will be out to grab the inaugural WABA crown as he eyes a return to the World Boxing Council. Manyuchi lost his silver welter-weight championship belt in March 2017. But, the 30-year-old boxer, has had to work hard to keep his weight within range to avoid encountering the same problems he met last September. He weighed 300g ahead of his showdown with Gallardo. “I had to keep pushing after losing my WBC title three years ago,’’ he said. ‘’I am glad I managed to come back strongly and the fight against Sebyala will determine my future. ‘‘I have always knocked opponents in my backyard and I promise to floor Sebyala the same way I have beaten others. “I have had issues with my weight to the extent that the last time out I came from the weigh-in unstuck. ‘‘This is one of the issues I have been paying particular attention to. “As I speak, I am well within my weight category. But, the main objective for the year, is to try and return to WBC. ‘‘I believe, I have worked hard enough and I will be challenging for WBC honours this year.” There will be eight more fights on the undercard, three of them title bouts involving pugilists from Manyuchi’s own stable. Rising star, Evans Husavihwevhu will try to wrestle the WABA Africa lightweight title when he faces Tanzania’s Max Moshi while Hassan Milanzi will take on Obert Makaika in a super bantamweight WBF Africa title. Super fly weight boxer, Tinashe Majoni, will also be angling to nail down the WBF Africa title when he takes on Aubrey Masamba. Bout Card John Andrew v Adonai Abraham Alfred Madzivadondo v Blessing Bhasera Lolita Muzeya (Zam) v Lukia Ali (Mal) Philip Musariri v Bazila Ngoza (Zam) Tatenda Biningu v Bongani Mukowora Hassan Milanzi v Orbet Makaika (Mal) WBF Africa title Evans Husavihwevhu v Max Moshi (Tan) WABA Africa title Tinashe Majoni v Aubrey Masamba (WBF Africa title) Charles Manyuchi v Muhamad Sebyala (Uga) WBF World/WABA Supreme title 