The Herald Clodine Manyozo Home and Garden Reporter The bedroom is where one keeps their essentials and must always be kept tidy, not forgetting the most important part of the room, the wardrobe. It is hard to keep the wardrobe clean and organised, especially for indecisive people who belabour on what to wear for the day. Before one gets to know how to arrange the wardrobe, why not take out all the clothes they do not wear and maybe donate to create space. There are clothes which one can keep, but not wear. The fact that they can just see the clothes in the wardrobe makes them feel satisfied. In an interview with Saturday Herald Home and Garden, a stylist popularly known as Marshall_Billionare said the wardrobe arrangement was determined by the size of the wardrobe. If one knows how to arrange the wardrobe, it will actually make life easier for them when looking for something to put on, he said. “One must make sure that the clothes are ironed before they put them into the wardrobe, be it folding or hanging them,” he said. The stylist said it was not everything that was supposed to be folded or hanged. Knowing what to fold and what to hang is something a number of people do not have enough knowledge on. “Some clothes will get a funny shape when they are hanged because of the type of fabric,” said Marshall. “Sweaters are not meant to be hanged, but instead they must be folded and put in a pile in the shelves. “Denim trousers, T-shirts, and cardigans are supposed to be folded and put in small piles.” When one folds the clothes, then they must try to put them in piles which are not too high. Marshall said arranging the wardrobe by type of clothes can be much nicer. “One cannot mix the clothes when arranging them, but instead put them according to the type of the clothes, that is jeans on their own and T-shirts on their own,” he said. “When hanging the clothes, they also need to be arranged by the type, that is coats, blazers, suits or dresses on their own.” Marshall said arranging clothes according to the colour code was something that could make one’s wardrobe look nicer, but it then depended on the excellence and creativity of the person. “When one folds or hangs the clothes, then putting the same shades of colours at the same place can show how organised one is in their room,” said Marshall. Trousers, jackets, dresses and skirts that need to be put on the hangers must be hanged in a way that one would not struggle when looking for a certain item. Marshall said putting some deodorant into the wardrobe could make the clothes stay with a good scent. “There are blocks that can be put into the wardrobe so as to keep the clothes with a good scent, if one does not have the blocks, then putting the one you spray daily is ok,” he said. Marshall said one must not mix shoes and clothes in the wardrobe. “Shoes bring out a certain scent, hence one must not mix the clothes with the shoes because the scent will get to the clothes,” he said. “Getting a shoe rack or maybe somewhere to put your shoes where they will not have contact with the clothes is a better idea.” The shoes need to be arranged in a good way. “There are ways in which one can arrange their shoes and end up making other shoes get deformed,” Marshall said. For women, handbags can also be arranged in the wardrobe if one has space. “Arranging the handbags on shelves according to the size and shape can also make them look much better,” he said.