The Herald Martin Kadzere Senior Business Reporter AS more drama continue unfolding at NetOne, it has emerged the board has denied a fellow member, Douglas Mamvura, from attending crucial meetings four months after his appointment. Dr Mamvura was appointed on October 18 last year by the then Minister of Information Communication Technology, Postal and Courier Services Kazembe Kazembe. “Following the dissolution of the NetOne board on 18 October 2018, I am pleased to advise that His Excellence President Emmerson Mnangagwa, has authorised me to appoint you as a board member of the newly constituted board.  This appointment is with effect from 18 October, 2019 for four years,” wrote Minister Kazembe in a letter availed to Herald Finance and Business. However, Dr Mamvura has never been invited for a single board meeting, despite the board, through the company secretary  Mr Tinashe Severa having been advised about his appointment. Interestingly, Dr Mamvura is being cited as respondent in a matter in which NetOne chief executive Lazarus Muchenje is challenging his suspension at the High Court. Mr Muchenje was suspended, without pay and benefits, on February 20 for alleged incompetence and inefficiency in discharging his duties as well as negligence. The suspension would allow for an independent investigation into the alleged conduct including abuse of authority. Mr Muchenje is challenging his suspension, arguing the board meeting, which resolved to suspend him, was irregularly convened and constituted. NetOne has four active board members following resignation of the chair and other two members. Concerned about not being invited to board meetings, Dr Mamvura notified the company secretary of his appointment last month. He was then invited to attend a special board meeting on February 13, 2020, but was asked to leave and advised to report to the Ministry for a brief. In a letter addressed to ICT Minister Jenfan Muswere on February 17, 2020, Dr Mamvura said he was prepared to work as a NetOne board member since his appointment had been approved by the President. Rejecting the appointment was tantamount to snubbing the President and trust the authorities had in him. He stated that it was not his fault that he had not attended board meetings as he was never invited. Dr Mamvura also copied the letter to the company secretary so that he would be included in future meetings. Subsequent to the letter, there have been special board meetings but Dr Mamvura was never invited. In an interview yesterday, Dr Mamvura said: “it is a mystery” that he was being denied to attend the board meetings since his appointment. “I was properly appointed but I was never advised of any meetings,” said Dr Mamvura in an interview. “I don’t know why I am being blocked and only those guys can tell you why. I am now being cited in court papers. . . to respond to the decisions made by the board when I was never part of it. It is unfair. “There are some corporate governance deficiencies.” Efforts to get a comment from NetOne  chairperson, Ms Susan Mutangadura and Minister Muswere proved fruitless. 