The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
THIS year’s Japanese Ambassador Cup judo tournament is set to have a foreign flavour after Zambia indicated they will be sending a team to compete in the event on March 29 in Harare. The annual competition will be held at Hellenic School with the national association using it to select the national team to represent the country in regional events such as the Region Five Games in December. Previously, the tournament has featured only local athletes. But, Judo Association of Zimbabwe president, Smart Deke, said they want to open their doors for their counterparts from the region. Deke said Zambia will be sending a 13-member team of seniors and cadets for the first time. “The difference with this one is that we are going to have Zambia coming since last year I mentioned that we are going to try and make it an international event,’’ said Deke. “This year we are expecting to have Zambia. “They are going to send their national team. They are sending 13 athletes. So, they have got seniors and cadets because they are preparing for the Region Five Games this year. “This is the first time we are having a foreign team coming in and Zambia are ranked number one or two in the region, together with South Africa, they are the best. “For us to be hosting them, it’s a very good opportunity for our athletes who sometimes don’t get the opportunity for exposure due to lack of funds. “It’s also part of our preparation towards the Region Five Games for our junior athletes who are Under-20s.’’ The judo mother body have been on a development drive to promote the sport for the visually impaired and they have a team coming from Murewa that is going to compete at the Japanese Ambassador Cup. The programme for the visually impaired was initiated in 2018 in a move to promote sport for all. “We are also going to have the visually impaired, this time they are going to be participating from Murewa,” said Deke. The JAZ president also revealed they have received part of the equipment donated by the International Judo Federation last year towards development of judo in schools. The equipment included 500 judo suits and 10 mats. It will be distributed to, at least, one school in each province to try and decentralise the sport across the country.