The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
CAPS United midfielder Blessing Sarupinda is hoping to break into Europe with the player scheduled to leave last night for a month-long assessment with Portuguese second-tier side, Sporting Clube. Sarupinda was supposed to have gone for those trials back in January but there were complications in getting a visa. But, the CAPS United management, headed by club vice-president, Nhamo Tutisani, finally secured the visa two weeks ago to enable the midfielder to try his luck in Portugal. If he manages to impress and secure a contract, Sarupinda will become the second Zimbabwean footballer to play in Portugal after the late Freddie Mkwesha, who turned out for Sporting de Bragga in the top-flight in the 1970s. “I can confirm that Blessing (Sarupinda) is scheduled to leave for Portugal tonight (last night) where he will undergo an assessment for the next 30 days,’’ said Tutani. “The team where he is going has already shown interest in having him but you know they will need to make assessments, including doing medicals before they can consider taking him on board. “We are very confident they will sign him though. “They already need the boy but they cannot just sign him without assessing whether he will fit into their system or not.’’ CAPS United coach, Darlington Dodo, said Sarupinda’s move to Portugal was welcome. “I understand his (Sarupinda’s) move to Portugal will be determined by his performance during a four-week assessment period,’’ said Dodo. “But, the fact that he has been selected for that means a lot, not just to the boy, but all the players at the team. “It gives hope to the other players and it shows that CAPS United is a big enough institution which draws interests from a host of top leagues in the world. “The level of the Portuguese league is high up there and for a player to be merely called for an assessment shows he has a lot to offer and has the right kind of potential. “We are all confident that he will make the grade.’’ Even in the event that Sarupinda makes the grade, he is likely to be loaned back at Makepekepe as the window in Portugal closed way back in January and will only re-open in June.