The Herald LOS ANGELES. — US superstar Tiger Woods, a 15-time major champion, will be inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame as part of the class of 2021. The hall, located in St Augustine, Florida, released a statement on Wednesday saying Woods had been advised of his impending induction in the male competitor category in a phone call from PGA Tour commissioner Jay Monahan. “I am both honoured and humbled to be inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame,” Woods said in a statement. “This past year has been such an incredible journey and the support I’ve received from my family, friends and fans has been overwhelming. “This achievement is the ultimate recognition to never give up and keep chasing.” Woods (44) was among 10 finalists named in March as candidates for 2021 enshrinement. His 93 worldwide victories include a record-tying 82 US PGA Tour titles. He won his 15th major title at the Masters last April, ending an 11-year major drought after career-threatening injuries. Woods is a three-time winner of the career Grand Slam and in 2000-01 completed the “Tiger Slam” when he became the first golfer since Bobby Jones to hold all four major championship titles at the same time. “Tiger has done more for the game of golf than anyone ever thought possible, and his historic feats on the course are only one aspect of his impact,” Monahan said, calling Woods’s imprint on the game “immeasurable.” The 2021 class was chosen by the Hall’s selection committee, a 20-member panel co-chaired by members Beth Daniel, Nick Price, Annika Sorenstam and Curtis Strange. Additional 2021 inductees will be announced in the coming days, Hall of Fame officials said. Woods has won 15 majors – second only to Jack Nicklaus’ 18 – and a joint record 82 times on the PGA Tour. The 44-year-old will be eligible for the Hall of Fame in December after the age of entry was lowered from 50 to 45. Woods is currently out of action with a back injury but he has enjoyed a special 12 months. He won the Masters at Augusta last April for his 15th major, but first since winning the US Open in 2008. His victory at the ZOZO Championship in Japan saw him draw level with Sam Snead on 82 PGA Tour wins, and he was a successful player-captain as USA defeated the International team in the Presidents Cup at Royal Melbourne in December. — BBC Sport. “This past year has been such an incredible journey and the support I’ve received from my family, friends and fans has been overwhelming,” said Woods. “This achievement is the ultimate recognition to never give up and keep chasing.” Woods is missing this week’s Players’ Championship at Sawgrass, but hopes to be fit to defend his Masters title next month.