The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
AS the coronavirus outbreak continues to cause uncertainty across the globe, the Zimbabwe Handball Federation have said they stand guided with their international and continental bodies. They are set to host the IHF Trophy Challenge Zone Six next month. The regional tournament is scheduled for April 24 to 30, with matches pencilled for Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex and City Sports Centre. Sports events across the world have been affected, with some being postponed and others cancelled. Zimbabwe is expected to host countries from the Southern Africa region for the competition. But, with the ongoing uncertainty because of the virus, it may be tricky with countries taking measures to curb the spread of the virus. South Africa has recorded a number of cases of the virus. ZHF secretary-general, Edson Chirowodza, said they have not received communication from the International Handball Federation and the African Handball Confederation regarding the issue. “As far as the issue of coronavirus is concerned we have not yet got any communication from the International Handball Federation or from the Confederation of African Handball and we await their directive towards the position of the tournament. “But, so far, I think we still continue with preparations and hoping that everything will go according to what is scheduled. “There is nothing that has been communicated towards cancellation. “In terms of confirmations, also, the IHF are supposed to send a fact sheet on the tournament. “Tentatively, we have all the teams which are supposed to come to participate in the tournament. So, basically, that’s what I can say for now. “And we have not had any communication from other countries in terms of them pulling out of the tournament,” Chirowodza said. Chirowodza said the 20-and-Under and 18-and-Under teams were scheduled to take part in a three-day camp in Harare and Kadoma this month. “These camps for Team Zimbabwe are mainly to work on the weak areas that they identified during friendly matches in Mozambique. “And, also, in terms of LOC preparations towards renovations at venues, we convened a meeting with the Sports Commission sometime last week where we discussed the inspection report. “We have agreed to push for an inter-ministerial meeting where responsible ministries are also invited to give an input towards the renovations and other areas of need,” Chirowodza said. Areas of concern raised during the inspection by CAHB director of sport, Noel Assemian last month, include the playing surface at both venues and the need to address the issue of power cuts at Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex.