The Herald Davison Bhunu Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Cestoball Association are set to make their first ever international tour when they take part in the Argentina Cestoball Invitational Open tournament to be held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, from October 20 to 27. This was recently revealed by Amon Madzvamuse, the president of the newly-formed Zimbabwe Cestoball Association, who said the new sport code’s executive have since started preparations to take two teams for the event. Cestoball is a team sport that is very similar to that of netball and it originated in Argentina in the late 19th century. The sport is very popular in Argentina and is mostly played by women at a school level. The sport is played both indoors and outdoors, and it is very common to see games being played on basketball courts. Two standalone net posts with baskets are stationed on the courts within the playing area. Players are free to move behind the net posts. The ball used is similar to that of a handball. A match is played between two six-player teams in two 20-minute periods. Two players each must always be present in both the back-court and the front-court at all times failing which results in a penalty. The objective of the sport is to score as many goals as possible by shooting the ball through the hoop. Players are not allowed to run with the ball. Balls have to be passed to move it up field. Goals can be scored by shooting the ball from anywhere in the field. A field goal, which is shot during regular play, is awarded two points, and free throws carry one point. The team with the most points at the end of the game is the winner. And Zimbabwe were recently invited to take part in a cestoball tournament in Argentina where they will make history by becoming the first ever African country to partake in the prestigious tourney. The tournament is an annual Argentine Open event where different cestoball teams from within the country and outside are invited for the fiesta. Zimbabwe’s will be the first African country to take part at the tournament with the president of the Zimbabwe Cestoball Association, Madzvamuse, eyeing to host a similar tournament in this country. ZICA have already started their preparations for the Argentine tournament and are in the process of assembling two teams for both boys and girls who will represent the country.