The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FOLLOWING their third place finish in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League last season, ZDF Queens goal-shooter, Sharon Bwanali, has challenged her teammates to aim even higher this season. ZDF opened their account for the 2020 championship race on a winning note when they overpowered newcomers Green fuel Angels in Chisumbanje last Saturday. Bwanali, who moved to ZDF from Harare City Queens on her return from the Vitality Netball Cup in Liverpool, last year, has proved to be a key player for the side. On Saturday, she was on fire as she scored 63 goals to lead her side in their 66-33 victory over Green fuel Angels. “Our game on Saturday was good because we did not underrate our opponents as they are newcomers,’’ said Bwanali. “The win gave me hope that we might win the championship because it’s always important to win the opening games. “Green fuel are a good side, their shooters are tall and even their goalkeeper was taller than me. “But I managed to get more goals even though I am shorter than her. Our mid-court players also had a good game, experience came to play, so that really helped. “I can say the game gave us an insight of what to expect this season,” Bwanali said. Her wish this season is to see her side win the title. “We have three national team players in our team, we have played some of the top countries in netball,’’ said Bwanali. “So, in 2020, I hope we can win the championship. I hope my teammates will not let me down because we promised each other to do well and fight for the championship. “For me, winning the championship means we would have proved ourselves. If ZDF win the championship, more players would want to join the club. “Personally I am fighting for the top goal-scorer of the year award.’’ ZDF were the first team to beat champions Correctional Queens in two years. Team captain, Caroline Matura, says all they need is to believe in themselves. “We want to win all our games because, as ZDF, we want the championship,’’ she said. “We need to put all our energy towards that. I believe, with our determination, team spirit and God, we can go all the way.’’