The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
MOSES Chunga and his Chapungu may have to wait a little longer before they return to the Premiership. This comes as league debutants Whawha, who were on the verge of being kicked out for failing to pay their affiliation fees, confirmed yesterday they had settled their dues. The veteran coach was appointed the Chapungu gaffer with the mandate to rebuild the Gweru airmen, who were relegated from the Premiership, at the end of last season. Although Chunga secured the job knowing Chapungu had been demoted, a ray of hope had filtered for the airmen that they could yet play top-flight football again this year. Newboys Tenax had also been expelled, along with Whawha, but they were also reinstated after paying their affiliation fees. Tenax technical manager, Lloyd Chinawa, yesterday said they were now battling to complete the registration of their players by the PSL deadline of March 31. “Thanks to PSL for accepting us back in the top-flight league because it was not fair on our players, the executive and, of course, supporters to lose the ticket after working so hard last year,’’ he said. “To be honest, for the past two weeks, the players were down. “But, we are happy now and we are going to do our registration. We have retained about 80 percent of our players who played in Division One.’’ The former Highway manager said they were building a team that played as a unit and which didn’t rely on big names. “We don’t have big names but we have players who can play and win games against any team,” he said. The club has forward Farai Mugumwa, who was the top scorer in the ZIFA Eastern Region Division One league, last year. They have also secured nomadic Panashe Mutasa, who has been with Dynamos and Chicken, and is looking to revive his career in Mutare. That’s the town where his father, Lloyd, launched a successful career at Tanganda before moving to DeMbare. Other players on Tenax books are Malvern Dumbura and Joseph Jambo. Chinawa says there is excitement among the club’s fans who were already looking forward to derby matches against Manica Diamonds. Mutare City Council have also been working tirelessly to have Sakubva certified fit to host top-flight league matches. Whawha chairman, Watson Matara, said it was a huge relief to get their place in the league confirmed. “We are grateful to the PSL for what they have done to us,’’ he said. “It has been difficult to raise the required amount as you know it is always difficult at the start. “But, l can promise you that our finances will stabilise and we expect our season to flow, both in terms of cash flow and performance. “Luke Petros has assembled a good squad and l am sure a number of clubs will fall.’’ According to PSL, newboys are supposed to fork out $208 010 in affiliation fees. This comprises a membership fee of $107 841. 25, a security deposit of $51 150 and a subscription fee of $49 018,75.