The Herald Daphne Machiri recently in Equatorial Guinea
THREE Zimbabwean fashion designers stole the show at the sixth edition of the Salon International Du Textile Africa held recently in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea. So impressive were their displays that Equatorial Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo could not hide his admiration for the Zimbabweans and expressed his happiness at their participation at the 6th SITA edition. “I am happy that Zimbabwe is here and this keeps strengthening our relations while exchanging traditional cultural norms and values as Africans in creating the Africa we want, with unity as one,” he said. Speaking during a Press conference, senior policy advisor for the Africa Union Madam Ron Osman Omar said it was important for Africa to accelerate industrial development through continental free trade, skill information and investment in intellectual property rights. “I will keep advocating for African industrial development to enable trade. Africa should translate vision into plans of  action for economic development,” said Madam Omar. She said textiles and clothing industries were imperative in economic and social terms because they create incomes, jobs and foreign currency and in the long run provide countries the prospect for sustained economic development. “It is also important for African countries to take talent seriously; fashion designing is also one of key realisations to those with the talents. Apt policies and institutions should be established to enrich the dynamic effects of textiles and clothing, quality and effectiveness,” she said. Madam Omar said it was important to harness intellectual property rights as a noble business model in the textile industry. “I urge fashion designers to participate in this Fourth Industrial Revolution and transform their businesses by going digital as a way of protecting intellectual property related to the Internet of things taking and into consideration that the African Regional Intellectual Property (ARIPO) headquarters is in Zimbabwe. “It is a chance to invest in IP as a business model, which fosters creativity, innovation for economic growth and development of all African States,” she said. Leading the Zimbabwean delegation was Rumbidzayi Judith Kamba who praised SITA organisers for such an initiative, saying that it upheld African culture and diversity. “This created a continental platform where the fashion designers exchanged creativity, innovation and links. It has shown us that it is important to empower tailors from grassroots level,” said Kamba. She expressed her desire to see the festival remodelling the opinion of designers. The three designers representing Zimbabwe were Tafadzwa Moyo who runs Kidd Hunta brand, Rukato Celia Tatenda for Chjaa ent brand and Mukora Noreen Chenesai for Chenesai brand. They all commended SITA for the break they desperately yearned for, which was accorded to them.