The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
UP-AND-COMING karatekas, drawn from different schools, are this Saturday expected to meet for the Fifth Dominican Convent Clash of the Titans Inter-schools Championships in Harare. The tournament is organised and hosted by Dominican Convent and was first held in 2015 but was shelved in 2016 before it bounced back in 2017. Dominican Convent director of sports, Farai Kanyenze, said this was an opportunity to promote self-defence and the sport itself. “We invited schools from all corners of Zimbabwe. “So far 15 schools have confirmed, but we also have individuals performing, so we are talking of about 200 karatekas, both boys and girls. “Being a girls school, we also want to educate the girl child and improve their self-esteem. “We also look forward to marketing this lovely sport that brings out a total person — physical-fitness, mental alertness and discipline to all Zimbabweans. “We also have the School Colour and Arts Festival running concurrently on the same day at the same venue. “So, the athletes and guests can refresh and join in the fun,” Kanyenze said. Participants will be grouped into different age-groups from as young as seven years to Under-21. Last year, hosts Dominican Convent dominated the competition, emerging tops in most age-groups. Their coach, Winston Nyanhete, said the numbers have been increasing over the years and they are hopeful of an exciting event this Saturday. Registration was scheduled to close yesterday to give the organisers time to come up with the draws for the tournament. “It’s closing today because we want to get enough time to do the draws and everything. “The response we have been getting has been good. “The first one, we had less than six schools but we have seen growth, more and more schools are coming. “Even the level of the competition has improved. “Some of the top schools coming have got athletes representing either the province or country. “It’s a good platform for development of athletes. “Besides the numbers we are getting, we have a lot of students with a lot of exposure, so definitely there is going to be high competition. “There will be a good mixture of those who have the experience and those with less experience,” Nyanhete said. Some of the schools expected to compete are Peterhouse, Dominican Convent Bulawayo, St Thomas Aquinas Primary from Bulawayo, Kwekwe High, Mother Patrick Primary School and Secondary and David Livingstone.