The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
CAPS United coach, Darlington Dodo, is keeping his cards close to his chest as to which players will be dropped from his Premier Soccer League registration roaster. Although the start of the 2020 Premiership season has been delayed, due to the coronavirus outbreak, top-flight teams are continuing to register their players with the PSL, with the process set to end on March 31. And the Green Machine gaffer is considering which players to drop from his bulging squad which stands in excess of 36. Teams are allowed to register a maximum of 30 players, including five Under-20 players. Makepekepe signed over 20 new players during the off-season and retained over 13 players from the squad, which featured for the team last year. There are also more than seven Under-20 players at the Green Machine, who will all be angling to impress Dodo, and find themselves on his PSL list. “It is every coach’s dream to have an array of stars. I have an exciting team at the moment,’’ said Dodo. “I have that positive headache and that is exactly what coaches crave for. “This is a group of success-hungry lads and it will be very difficult for me, and my assistants, to choose those who we will register for the first half of the season. “We have come up with a criteria which, unfortunately, I can’t share at the moment. “What is very key at the moment is to know that every player we have at the team right now is important. “The players we are talking about have contracts with CAPS United. They belong to the club and they will all play a role for the team. Unfortunately, we will have to trim the team so that we are left with the required number for registration.’’ While some of the players dropped will go out on loan to other top-flight teams, the majority of them will join Northern Region Division One side Black Mambas. The Zimbabwe Republic Police side have entered into a partnership deal with Makepekepe, which will see the clubs engage in player and technical exchange programmes, starting this coming term.