The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWEANS in the United Kingdom have lined up a host of activities, including a 10-team football tournament, to celebrate the country’s 40th anniversary. Team Zimbabwe-UK chief executive, Marshall Gore, said the Zimbabwe UK Independence Celebrations 2020 will take place in Coventry on April 18. Gore said the main theme for the event this year is about bringing together people in unity, and celebrating the success scored by Zimbabweans, in the diaspora. “For the past few years we have been consistent in hosting the Zimbabwe Independence Celebrations in the UK Diaspora in different towns. “The main purpose (this year) is to bring the community together. “This year’s celebrations will be the special 40th anniversary. We’re inviting all willing Zimbabweans in the UK to be involved. “Please be advised that this year we’re celebrating Independence together with the entire Zimbabwe Diaspora Community in Coventry at The Ecel Leisure Centre Mitchell Ave Coventry CV4 8DY. “This decision was reached by the Executive with the hope of encouraging us to be inclusive and to promote the unity of purpose in light of the current divisions and hatred in our community resulting from divisive political antics.’’ Gore said the country was moving in a different, and exciting, direction. “As you are all aware, the New Dispensation is about promoting national peace, unity and reconciliation at all cost and squashing the demagogues of political intolerance and divisions that bedevilled our country in the build-up to November 2017,’’ he said. “We have, therefore, on this occasion chosen to be progressive by putting the country first before party politics. “We strongly believe that this renewed thinking, and creative diplomacy, is what is required to restore peace and harmony back into our communities and country. “The event is free for all and user-friendly for kids. So, feel free to invite your families, and friends, to experience the hospitality of Zimbabwe.’’ Gore, who is also the deputy chairperson of the Zimbabwe Diaspora Community, said had planned to visit Zimbabwe next month under the homecoming extravaganza organised by Zim-Thrive. But the initiative has been postponed to December due to the coronavirus outbreak. The extravaganza will see Zimbabweans, scattered across the globe, visiting home at once during the same month to celebrate the country’s 40th independence. It has been earmarked to run from December 1-31 as Zimbabweans in diaspora flock home to celebrate with their families. Team Zimbabwe-UK have planned a football match pitting Zimbabwean legends, based overseas, against their local counterparts likely to take place in December. The legends and former players based in the UK include the likes of Memory Mucherahowa, Joe Mugabe, Frank Nyamukuta, Maxwell Dube, Timothy Chirozvani, Mpumelelo Dzowa, Chamu Musanhu and Artwell Mabhiza. Others, like Cephas Chimedza who is based in Belgium, are also scheduled to be part of the team. Zimbabwean Diaspora Promoter, Kudzaishe Chipadza, said they have lined up a fun-filled day on April 18. They chose the event to take place in Coventry because of its centrality. Chipadza said they are expecting over 500 Zimbabweans in Coventry. “Zimbabwe celebrates 40th Independence on 18 April 2020, which is a big milestone. “Zimbabwe Independence family fun day event will be attended by hundreds of Zimbabweans in the UK, joined by other African friends, in solidarity with Zimbabwe. “It brings together an estimated 500 plus people made of families, business community, scholars, youths, professionals, artists and different sports personalities to celebrate the country’s independence in the UK. “There will be entertainment for the whole family,” said Chipadza.