The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’s top seed Benjamin Lock yesterday said he played under a lot of pressure although he managed to subdue his opponent Amer Naow to end the first day of the Davis Cup World Group II play-off against Syria level on 1-1 at Harare Sports Club. Lock rekindled Zimbabwe’s hopes with a 6-3 6-3 victory in the second match of the day after Mehluli Sibanda had started off the campaign on a losing note. Syria took the lead after Sibanda, who came in for Takanyi Garanganga, was defeated 3-6, 3-6 by Hazem Naw in the first rubber. With Zimbabwe needing a win, in their second rubber to redeem the situation, Lock did just that. “Obviously, we had a tough start and they went up 1-0, so the pressure then shifted from them to us,’’ said Lock. ‘’I knew there was a lot riding on the match today, you don’t want to go down 2-0. “In the beginning, of course, there is always some tension and I think there was a little bit of extra today because of the position we were in. ‘‘But, that’s part of the sport and that’s a team sport. “So, it took me a little bit of a while to find the rhythm on my serve. But, otherwise, I was very happy, I had one bad game on my service game at 3-1 but I felt if I held to go up 4-1 it would have been a pretty straight forward match. ‘‘But, in the second set, I felt very comfortable out there and I was really happy with the way I played.’’ Garanganga could not play because of a knee injury and has been ruled out of this tie. It was a bad day for Sibanda, who struggled with his game from the first set, making unforced errors and lacked consistence in his serve. Lock teams up with Courtney for the doubles against Naow and Naw this morning.  And a win is vital for Zimbabwe ahead of the reverse singles that come soon after the doubles match. Lock is confident they will pull through. He will then face Naw in the reverse singles before Sibanda takes on Makzoume in the last rubber. Sibanda admitted yesterday was not one of his best days and will be hoping for a better game. “I was struggling a bit, I was pretty nervous in the beginning . . . I wasn’t striking the ball well, just not a good day for me. ‘‘But, I have to give credit to the other guy for playing solidly. “It’s my first live rubber, so much pressure for me . . . not like pressure I mean, just nervousness to be honest. I couldn’t handle it properly but I think it’s going to be better next time,” said Sibanda. Naw was satisfied with the outcome of day one but said it’s important they take the doubles today. “Of course it’s not good and not bad. Actually we are in a kind of good position here in Zimbabwe at the moment and we are looking forward for the next day. “First match tomorrow its doubles, it’s really important to lead. We are looking forward to it,” Naw said.