The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS believe the sales and distribution agreement they signed with their main sponsors, Gold Leaf Tobacco, will be the game-changer in their quest to become a profitable business entity. Club chairman, Isaiah Mupfurutsa, said the Glamour Boys, who will be turning 60 in three years’ time, want to be reposition themselves as the leading football brand on the domestic scene. DeMbare last year signed a five-year deal with Gold Leaf Tobacco worth $5 million, translating to $1m per year. The package has since been reviewed upwards to cushion the club from the current inflationary pressures. It was revealed at yesterday’s unveiling ceremony that Dynamos were set to pocket more, in terms of commissions, under the extended agreement where Gold Leaf Tobacco will be selling their Remington Gold products through the club. The DeMbare supporters have been incorporated into the deal and they also stand to benefit a certain percentage in commission. “This is a momentous occasion which marks the further strengthening of relations between Dynamos Football Club and our anchor sponsors, Gold Leaf Tobacco Company in Zimbabwe,” said Mupfurutsa. “We are here to witness the power of football and business’ strategic collaboration, a collaboration which shall change the tone for the growth of Zimbabwean football for posterity.’’ Mupfurutsa, however, was not keen to disclose the figures involved in the agreement. He added the sponsors have pledged to partner in the manufacturing and importation of replicas to be sold to the supporters across the country. DeMbare look more stable these days and have managed to renew their sponsorship with Nyaradzo Group for another three years. They are also in close partnership with ZLG, 4-May and Fidelity. “Dynamos Football Club is on a business trajectory and we shall strive to turn the club into a business partner of choice through embracing best practices. “Poor governance and any other vices shall have no place at Dynamos Football Club. We believe that we should be at the front-line in the thrust to embrace professionalism through the FIFA Club Licensing framework. We would like to be the champions of best practices in Zimbabwe football, making our club an attractive investment partner. “The progress we have made to date, in terms of attaining good governance benchmarks, has seen our anchor sponsors increase their support for the club and more partners have begun to show interest in partnering our club, locally and abroad.’’ Mupfurutsa said they will unveil more partners soon. ‘’In the near future, we will be unveiling some of these partnerships,’’ he said. “We have already witnessed some great cooperation and engagement from foreign partners like Ligi (Pvt) Limited of Belgium and top Belgian football club, KV Mechelen. “Our head coach (Tonderai) Ndiraya was recently in Belgium for two weeks, courtesy of our technical partnership with Ligi and KV Mechelen. “The extension of our partnership with Nyaradzo Group for another three years is another vote of confidence by local partners in the Dynamos brand,” said Mupfurutsa. Gold Leaf Tobacco have been taking care of Dynamos wage bill and all the operational expenses since last year. They have provided funding for the Glamour Boys to invade the market this year as the club look to turn back the hands of time to the days when they dominated the domestic scene. The company’s representative, Sithabiso Martin, said they want to see a strong Dynamos emerging again. They also want prop up their relaunched Remington Gold cigarette range. “It was disappointing and underwhelming (in the last few seasons) because Dynamos was in a certain place before.  But I am positive because they have now partnered with the right brand.’’