The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — The Premier Soccer League have resolved to try and finish the 2019/20 season by June 30, but say they remain “flexible” beyond that to bring the campaign to a conclusion. The Absa Premiership hosts the biggest constituency of Zimbabwe’s players plying their trade in foreign lands. The league is on hold due to the coronavirus outbreak, and the PSL had hoped to play on from as early as next week, after gaining the backing of the Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa to do so. A special sitting of the PSL Board of Governors, which includes all 32 clubs, deliberated a way forward for the league yesterday. “While it is our intention to complete the season by no later than June 30, 2020, because of the existing uncertainties in our country we shall remain flexible,” the PSL said in a statement. “The Board of Governors has mandated the Executive Committee and the appointed Task Team to take all possible measures to ensure that the league resumes in compliance with directives issued by the State President with the support and alignment of the National Government.” No date has been set as yet for the resumption of the fixtures. A Task Team that has been established will “look at all possible scenarios and report to the PSL Exco as soon as possible”. The PSL executive committee will, after consulting with the Board of Governors, announce the resumption date. Meanwhile, AmaZulu, who are the home of Zimbabwe international, Talent Chawapihwa, have told all of their players to self-isolate for the next few days and not leave their homes unless absolutely necessary. Usuthu have revealed their players are not expected at training until today after the Premier Soccer League postponed this week’s fixtures ahead of a Board of Governors meeting yesterday. “First team players to report to training on Friday morning. They must however, remain in isolation at their Durban residencies and not go out of town under any circumstances,” Usuthu general manager Lunga Sokhela said. Sokhela also revealed that all academy players and the Multichoice Diski Challenge squad had been told to stop training and self-isolate. “It is expected that our players self-isolate during this time and expect to be called back when the situation changes and when the time comes that we know what is going on with the balance of the season.” The PSL has already cancelled the remainder of the Multichoice Diski Challenge season. Usuthu, who are locked in a relegation battle, were due to face fellow strugglers Baroka FC this weekend. Their next scheduled fixture then is only on April 4, when they are away at BidVest Wits. — SuperSport..