The Herald Sports Reporter
THE country’s biggest schools rugby showcases, the Dairibord Schools Rugby Festival, has become the latest event to be affected by the coronavirus lockdown. Organisers yesterday announced the postponement of the 2020 edition. The event, which is traditionally hosted by Prince Edward School in Harare, was supposed to take place from April 27 to May 2.  But the organisers were left with no choice after Government pronounced the coronavirus pandemic a national disaster this week. “In line with the recent announcement by His Excellency President E.D. Mnangagwa and, on the backdrop of the recent pronouncement by the World Health Organisation declaring the COVID 19 a pandemic, Dairibord Zimbabwe (Pvt) Ltd and Prince Edward School have decided to defer the Dairibord Schools Rugby Festival 2020 edition which was due to take place from April 27- 2 May 2020 to a later date to be advised,” said the Dairibord Rugby Festival Committee in a statement yesterday. “The Dairibord Schools Rugby Festival has become a major annual event on the local schools sporting calendar and has continued to attract international teams, referees and scouts.’’ “The interest among local rugby fans has also been growing in leaps and bounds. Rugby, being a high contact sport and in light of the coronavirus, Prince Edward School (the Festival Organiser and Host), Dairibord (the Festival Title Sponsor), have seen it only fit and responsible to defer the Seventh Edition of the Dairibord Schools Rugby Festival as a health risk mitigating measure for the participating teams, officials and fans. “The health and safety of all the Dairibord Schools Rugby Festival participants is of utmost importance to us, hence the decision to defer to a future date to be advised in line with the developments regarding the COVID 19 pandemic.”  Over the years, the festival has grown to become one of the biggest rugby tournaments in the world, attracting participants from the Southern African region and beyond. The festival has identified and natured talent and has produced stars such as Tendai Mtawarira, who recently won the World Cup with South Africa.