The Herald Arts Reporter
Short impromptu performances by poets Albert Nyathi, Shumirai Nhanhanga and Tinashe Muchuri created a befitting send off for lateauthor and academic David Mungoshi. The trio was part of a seven-member Zimbabwe Writers Association contingent that travelled to Manyene, Chivhu, to join the Mungoshi family in laying to rest the acclaimed author on Saturday. “There should have been more of us because David Mungoshi was a man of the people,” said writer and academic Memory Chirere, who is  the Zimbabwe International Book Fair Association chairperson. In addition to Chirere, writers Monica Cheru, Albert Nyathi, Shumirai Nhanhanga, Tinashe Muchuri, Francis Matambirofa and Nomsa Ngwenya attended the funeral. Cheru, the ZWA chairperson, conveyed condolences from the Pan African Writers Association of which Mungoshi was the Zimbabwe representative. She also said that she hoped Mungoshi’s death did not mean the end of projects he had started. “We know that David left unpublished manuscripts, particularly the book he was talking about for the past two years,” she said. “We hope that the family will see it fit to find those works and have them published. “There are several fellow writers and editors who can honour David through polishing those manuscripts to the exacting standards that the deceased was known for.” The villagers were delighted to see internationally acclaimed poet Nyathi in person. A few took the opportunity to bring out their Ndebele language skills much to the delight of Nyathi who shared reminiscences and of his collegiality and friendship with the late Mungoshi. Tinashe Muchuri recited a short version of his poem “Chigaro”, which the late Mungoshi would always call on him to perform at writers’ gatherings. It caused merriment and some discomfort among the elder generation at the humorous description of different human backsides that a chair accepts in its long time of service. Mungoshi, (71) who won an award for authoring the novel “The Fading Sun” was also a former columnist for The Herald. He died last weekend after battling ill health for some time. He is survived by his wife Emma, six children and 12 grandchildren.