The Herald Crime Reporter A suspected gold panner attacked and killed an armed security guard, who sought to recover a sack of gold ore he had stolen at a mine in Inyathi. The guard had saw the suspect taking the gold ore to his homestead and later made a follow up to recover it. This did not go down well with the suspect who disarmed the guard and assaulted him with an unknown object, resulting in him dying on the spot. A report was made to the police and the suspect was arrested. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incident. “We can confirm that a security guard at a mine in Inyathi died on September 7, 2020 after being assaulted with an unknown object. The security guard, who was armed with a shotgun had gone to the accused person’s homestead to recover a sack of gold ore that he had stolen from the mine. “On arrival, he requested to search the house but this did not go down well with the suspect who disarmed and assaulted him. The accused person was later arrested and the gold ore was recovered,” he said. Meanwhile, police have warned members of the public not to take the law into their own hands after a 36-year-old Bulawayo man was stabbed on the back of the head after he had stolen a cellphone. The assailant has since been arrested. In a similar incident, which occurred in Bulawayo, a 36-year-old man who was touting for passengers was struck with a stone on the back of the head after a misunderstanding with another man. The man was also arrested. Police are appealing for information which may lead to the identification of a man’s body approximately 30-years-old who was struck and killed by a motorist along Chiremba Road, near Stopover Shops in Epworth over the weekend. The victim sustained head injuries and was taken to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival. The body is at Chitungwiza Central Hospital mortuary pending identification by relatives. ZRP is also investigating the murder of an unknown man aged 20, who was assaulted and stabbed to death by four men in Bulawayo over a debt allegedly owed to one of the accused. Three of the suspects have been arrested while the fourth one is now on the run. In a related incident, a body of a man was also discovered in Cowdray Park, Bulawayo with a stab wound on the left side of the chest. The body is being held at United Bulawayo Hospitals pending identification. In Kezi, a 44-year-old man has been arrested after he axed his wife to death on Saturday following a misunderstanding.