The Herald Court Reporter
Two more NatPharm board members yesterday appeared at the Harare Magistrates Courts facing allegations of failing to retire managing director Ms Florah Nancy Sifeku when her term of office expired. Gerald Gore and Charles Enos Maponga appeared before Harare regional magistrate Mr Trynos Utahwashe charged with criminal abuse of duty as public officers. They were remanded to September 24 for routine remand on $3 000 bail each. Four other NatPharm board members —chairman Billy Rigava, his deputy Rachael Chibaya, Johnson Shonhe and Harunavamwe Notburga Chifamba — have already appeared in court facing similar allegations and were also given $3 000 bail each by magistrate Victoria Mashamba. On 1 June 2006, Sifeku was appointed NatPharm managing director on a renewable three-year contract. Renewals were granted with the last being from 1 June 2015 to 31 May 2018. The court heard that on 31 July 2018, former NatPharm chairman Dr George Washaya wrote a notice of retirement to Sifeku, which also said the board had taken notice of her age, but granted her a final six months. Sifeku was no longer eligible for reappointment, according to the Public Entities Corporate Governance Act, after having served for 10 years. On 28 November 2018, NatPharm received a circular from the Office of the President and Cabinet, outlining the procedure for termination of contracts for public entities’ CEOs who had served for over 10 years, as guided by law. The court heard that the NatPharm board chaired by Dr Washaya was dissolved, leaving the pharmaceutical company to operate from October 2018 to June 2019 without a board. According to the State, Sifeku was reporting directly to the Minister of Health and Child Care. On July 1, 2019, a new NatPharm board was appointed and on July 18, a human resources committee meeting chaired by Chifamba was held and the recruitment of a new managing director was raised and captured in the minutes. But Sifeku’s contract expired and she reportedly continued to work without a contract and without the President’s approval. Accusations against the six board members are that they failed to terminate Sifeku’s employment, which was part of their duties. During the time Sifeku continued to work, she received salaries and benefits amounting to $631 997 and US$2 865.