The Herald Windhoek. — Police chief Sebastian Ndeitunga has called on members of the public to cooperate with law enforcement in the strict implementation of the daily curfew imposed nationally between 8pm and 5am to help curb the spread of Covid-19. Ndeitunga said law enforcement officers were more than ready to enforce the curfew and the state of emergency regulations across the country. The dusk-to-dawn national curfew came into effect yesterday. “We have always been ready to enforce the state of emergency regulations. We will do the same as we have been doing in two regions of Erongo and Khomas and the six local authorities. My office has given guidance and instructions that the curfew is enforced as announced by the head of state,” Ndeitunga told New Era yesterday. President Hage Geingob on Friday extended stage three lockdown regulations across all 14 regions for two weeks. The daily curfew from 8pm to 5am, which was only applicable to Windhoek, Okahandja, Rehoboth, Walvis Bay, Arandis and Swakopmund, was extended to the whole country until 12 September. Ndeitunga added despite the police’s readiness, the onus was still on the public to adhere to the state of emergency regulations. “People should not do things because they should be policed. It should be on the willingness of everybody. Everyone should just be a law enforcer. Wherever they are, they should ensure they enforce the regulations. They should adhere to health protocols to assist the police. If we all adhere to regulations of the state of the emergency, we will be victorious at the end of the day,” Ndeitunga stated. Government on Friday also lifted exit and entry restrictions for Walvis Bay, Swakopmund and Arandis, and members of the public may travel to other parts of the country but travel restrictions in Windhoek, Rehoboth and Okahandja remain. President Geingob explained the set measures aim to suppress the spread of the virus through the movement of people, while minimising impacts on livelihoods and businesses. He appealed to all Namibians to take the virus seriously and exercise utmost caution in behaviour and conduct. — New Era.