The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Idols SA hopeful Vhudi Mamphwe promises to keep the fire burning with his song My Yoki Yoki after his journey was cut short on the reality TV competition. The 20-year-old aspirant Venda musician’s shock elimination on Sunday night left many viewers devastated during the theater week that saw 31 contestants advancing to the next stage. Vhudi, who melted the hearts of many South Africans two weeks ago when he auditioned with his original song admitted to Sowetan that he was still shaken by his early exit. “It was really painful, but I think I have accepted it. I now see what God is trying to show me. I have to stand on my own and just pursue my music career,” said Vhudi. “I think Idols has played its part and it was getting me exposure. Had it not been for Idols I will not be here. I was looking forward to winning the competition when I joined, but it is what it is. “The reception has been amazing from the public encouraging me to keep pushing and work on my music. My family is also really proud of me.” Vhudi said he was in studio last week recording My Yoki Yoki as his first single. He plans to announce later this week when he will drop it. “I chose it as my first single because I think people are waiting for it so it was only appropriate that I release it as my first single,” Vhudi said. “For now I’m just working as an independent artist. When it makes sense to me then I will sign with a record label. For now I’m still taking my time because I don’t want to rush into things. All of this is new to me.” Vhudi’s ambition is to make gospel and Afropop music with Khaya Mthethwa, Benjamin Dube and Davido as his dream collaborations. In the history of Idols SA, contestants such as Shekhinah, Amanda Black and Q Twins’s journeys were cut short but they went on to have illustrious music careers. The 31 contestants that made it to the next round will battle for their place in the coveted top 16 this coming Sunday. “Theatre week is a stage in the competition where viewers get to know their contestants better and to choose their favourites and first round of theatre week was filled with everything to keep the viewers on their edge of the seat — heartbreak, tension and entertainment,” commented Nomsa Philiso, the channel director for Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. — Sowetan.