The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
LONG-DISTANCE runners, who are aiming for Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games qualification, have been challenged to up their training programmes. World Athletics will allow qualification system for marathon and race walk events to start earlier than track and field events. NAAZ president, Tendai Tagara, said they were already looking for races where they can send their athletes. They are pinning their hopes on Munyaradzi Jari, Ngonidzashe Ncube, Isaac Mpofu, Rutendo Nyahora, Fortunate Chidzivo and Ethel Sibanda . “It has always been the norm, road races qualifying period always start early,’’ said Tagara. “Any opportunity that comes we will send athletes. That’s why I said we should not count 2020 as a wasted year as things can change and we must adapt “All major races are still to confirm because of the stringent conditions set by their governments. “But, we are already chasing races for the athletes. The earlier they attempt the better, so that if they miss, there is still more time. “The world is upside down, hence we cannot wait for one race. But, I am confident they will make it. “I am not panicking.” He said there shouldn’t be complications for road runners. “Road runners have no excuse because they are conditioned to social distances,’’ he said. “It’s track runners who have the biggest challenge (in terms of) social distance. “On Saturday I had a virtual meeting with the athletes commission leadership where I highlighted the need to be ready because their qualifying period is too short.’’ South Africa-based Nyahora said she will take any opportunity she gets and has been working towards ensuring she remains in shape. “Now, I am only doing my normal runs on the park. We don’t have access to the stadium but they will open soon. “I don’t have any races so far but if anything comes up, before year end, I will definitely grab it,” said Nyahora. Other athletes the national association are hoping can qualify are sprinters Dickson Kamungeremu, Tatenda Tsumba, Itayi Vambe and Ngoni Makusha. David Tinago, who is working with the team, said the challenge has been access to facilities. “We have been training but it has been difficult as our main training venues are still closed because of the Covid-19, like UZ and the National Sports Stadium. “From a coach’s point, it has been really hard to keep athletes motivated and to improvise the training programmes based on the situation. “And, we don’t even have the actual calendar to work on. “But, this also has been a blessing for us as we have managed to have time to work on our weaknesses more,’’ said Tinago. .