The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has reportedly told the English Premiership football club he wants at least three more signings in addition to the imminent arrival of Donny van de Beek this summer. Solskjaer has told van de Beek that he plans to play him in the No 10 role for Manchester United, according to reports in the Netherlands. The 23-year-old is on the brink of completing his move to Old Trafford after United and Ajax agreed a £40.3 million deal on Sunday. Van de Beek has now undergone a medical with United and has committed to a long-term contract worth just under £110 000 a week. The Netherlands international will offer United a versatile option in midfield but his record of 28 goals and 24 assists in 118 Eredivisie appearances also shows that he possesses a significant attacking threat. According to Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad, Solskjaer had a Facetime conversation with Van de Beek last Friday and during their talks the United manager told his new signing that he primarily plans to play him in the No 10 role. The report claims that Solskjaer’s vision and the idea of playing in an advanced midfield role helped convince Van de Beek to make the move to United. United have been linked with a whole host of other big name signings, most notably Dortmund forward Jadon Sancho, but as of yet nothing has materialised. But according to The Times Solskjaer is still desperate to add a centre-back, right winger and striker to his squad before the transfer window slams shut next month. This may mean, however, that they need to sell before they can buy, and the likes of Andreas Pereira and Jesse Lingard are most likely to move on. United have not given up hope of luring Sancho to Old Trafford, despite Dortmund previously insisting they would not budge on their £108m valuation of the player. Officials behind the scenes are quietly confident that they may be able to negotiate the price down later on in the summer, and there could yet be more twists and turns to come in the saga. — The Mirror.