The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — The Moroccan capital Rabat will host next year’s highly-anticipated Confederation of African Football (Caf) presidential elections. In a video press conference on Thursday, current president Ahmad once again refused to be drawn on whether he will run for a second term. “I am finalising with my team,” said the Malagasy. “Such a position in society in a continent is not about personal ambition, it is a commitment that is sought after by different interest groups.” A strong North African challenge was already expected prior to the announcement, which adds another twist to what are likely to be the hardest-fought elections in decades. Candidates will be able to apply from September 11 to November 12, with the elections themselves scheduled to take place on March 12. In a series of other moves, as Caf adjusts its calendar to cope with the ongoing challenges posed by coronavirus, it was announced that: The African Nations Championship (CHAN) will still be played in January 2021, with the dates confirmed as January 16-February 7 The semi-finals of this year’s Champions League and Confederation Cup have been moved back to the second half of October Senegal will host the 2020 Beach Soccer Nations Cup The 2022 CHAN will now be played in January 2023, with Algeria hosting The next Women’s Africa Cup of Nations will take place in July 2022 2021 Nations Cup and 2022 World Cup qualifiers will stay the same, set to resume in November 2020 and May 2021 respectively The most pressing date for Caf had been the resumption of both its main club competitions, with both the Champions League and Confederation Cup having been slated for resumption on September 22 and 25 respectively. However, the Champions League first legs between Morocco’s Raja Casablanca and Egypt’s Zamalek as well as Raja’s city rivals Wydad Casablanca against Cairo giants Al Ahly will now be played on October 17-18, with the return legs a week later. The final itself has been moved from October 16 to November 6. Meanwhile, the one-match Confederation Cup semi-finals — which had been due to start in 12 days — will now take place on October 19 and 20. Horoya meet Pyramids in one tie while Renaissance Berkane face Hassania Agadir in the other. The Confederation Cup final, also in Rabat, has also been moved to October 25, having earlier been set to take place on 27 September. — BBC Sport.