The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
ZIFA have moved to stop social football teams, most of whom with professional players in their ranks, from using the ZIFA Village pitch. Most Premiership and First Division footballers have over the weeks been engaging in unconventional matches (money games) at the facility despite the fact that football activities remain banned in the country. Football activities were banned by authorities back in March as a way of combating the spread of the new coronavirus pandemic and players have largely been working on individualised programmes provided virtually by their technical teams. However, most of them have been defiant and have been seen playing “money games”, especially in Harare and Bulawayo. But after authorities from both top-flight and lower divisions clubs censured their players following media reports that the players were engaging in “money games”, they (the players) have been devising other strategies including conniving to play the games at the ZIFA Village which is generally far away from the public eyes. Their shenanigans were helped by the fact that ZIFA are not the owners of the artificial turf at the venue and the social teams have been conniving with security details manning the venue to get permission to use the pitch. When The Herald visited the venue yesterday, the boom gate was locked and a security guard at the entrance, who declined to be named, said they had locked the venue following instructions from ZIFA. “What I can tell you at the moment is that today (yesterday) there are no games being played at the ZIFA Village ground. By this time (around 12noon) every weekend we would be enjoying football on this pitch,” he said. “Most of the players who turn out are from the top-flight and First Division clubs play in these games. They are mostly accompanied by coaches from those respective tiers. Several big name players and coaches frequent this place. “I am a football person and I can name several of those players (providing names). But, we don’t know how ZIFA got wind of what was happening here. They came here last week and instructed us to deny entry to anyone with the intention of playing football here.” ZIFA spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela, acknowledged the pitch had become home to social football over the past weeks but the association had to act as soon as they learnt of the development. “Yes, there were football matches played at the venue over the past weeks and we were not aware of that. But, as soon as we got wind of what was happening, we acted and I can tell you there are no activities taking place at that venue right now,” said Gwesela. “As you may be aware, the artificial turf doesn’t belong to ZIFA, it provided a bit of a loophole and that’s how these social football teams have managed to play at the venue. The artificial turf belongs to a certain college and that technicality might be the one used by these social teams to get access to the turf. “But, as soon as we heard that the venue was being used for that, we had to act. Football activities are still banned in the country not only at ZIFA Village. So we are urging the public to adhere to the regulations set by the authorities while we work together with other stakeholders for the safe return of the game.” The Government, together with ZIFA, are expected to announce the way forward as far as football return is concerned this week. A fortnight ago, the Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Kirsty Coventry, told the media that they had given ZIFA a set of proposals and guidelines to consider for the safe return of football which ZIFA, in consultation with other stakeholders, are understood to have considered and come up with a solid position.