The Herald Crime Reporter
Gangs armed with machetes and knobkerries have resurfaced countrywide, targeting mines and individuals keeping large amounts of cash, prompting police to relaunch “Operation Chikorokoza Ngachipere” and “No to Machete Wielding Gangs”. A few months ago, police restored order in mining areas after taking on the gangs, arresting large numbers and thwarting a wave of violence. That gangland violence claimed the lives of several people and left many injured. Police said since January this year, 12 330 machete gang members and other criminal elements have been arrested in mining communities countrywide.
Police launched the “Operation Chikorokoza Ngachipere”, following an outcry from citizens over machete-wielding robbers who were terrorising people in mining communities. In an interview yesterday, national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said they had since intensified the operation. “We can confirm that the ZRP has intensified an operation code named ‘Chikorokoza Ngachipere/ Isitsheketsha Kasipele’ and ‘No to Machete Wielding Gangs’,” he said. Police have since been heavily deployed to some of the areas where illegal panning is rampant to ensure peace prevails. Anyone arrested will face the full wrath of the law as some of them are violating Covid-19 regulations. Asst Comm Nyathi said they arrested two suspects last Thursday, who were part of a gang that was armed with machetes and raided a mine in Inyathi at night.
The two were arrested at Mucklenuck A2 Mine. “The suspects struck the victim with a machete and stole cash amounting to US$200 and $400. A follow up was made leading to the arrest of the duo and investigations are still in progress,” Asst Comm Nyathi said. Criminal activities by the marauding gangs of machete attackers have seen reports of murder, rape, assault, housebreaking and stock theft. Police statistics show that in the mineral-rich Midlands Province, reported criminal cases rose 33 percent in the first nine months of 2019 because of the influx of machete attackers. Recently, machete gangs raided the Circle V mine in Shurugwi and stole a firearm and $5 000 cash, stabbing and injuring one mine employee in the process. Management said the money was part of the float used to buy gold at the mine. Lately, machete gangs have been targeting people dealing in cash around Harare.