The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
NATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director for coaching, talent identification and development, Lisimati Phakamile, says more needs to be done if local athletes are to make it to such platforms like the Diamond League. The annual series usually runs from May to late August or early September. “It’s by invitation, you get invited by the organisers after achieving a special performance at a certain competition,’’ he said. “Most importantly, is performance at big stages, usually the top 10 at the World Championships and the Olympics. “We have not had athletes who have given us that level since the introduction of the Diamond League. “And, again, it’s not all about qualifying for the Diamond League, it’s about qualifying for major events, African Championships, World Championships, the Olympics and get that podium performance, so that you compete with the best. “These are elite professionals, if you look at our athletes, they are still a bit low on that standard.’’ Phakamile underlined the importance of resources, which help create conditions that make it possible for athletes to perform. “Our athletes can get to that stage but it’s about getting all the resources and hard work,’’ he said. “They need a lot of resources, a lot of hard work, and pushing by all the people involved, coming even from the national association, technical teams, coming from coaches. “They need all the support, nutrition, fitness, and training. An athlete needs all that, a personal team, a psychologist, nutritionist. “They need to invest and get that support and dedicate all their time, it’s a lot of money.” The national association are hoping to have the inter-provincial meet towards the end of this months in Bulawayo. But, that is subject to changes on the lockdown restrictions put in place to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. NAAZ president, Tendai Tagara, said they will be guided by Government’s advice and might push back the event. “We are waiting for government update this first week, we might push back by two months, if there isn’t much change from government guidance. “But, we want to remain positive because, in athletics, you must train and compete. “The Olympics qualifiers start in December and our athletes must consider that window to be critical. “December to May is too short for the World Junior, Africa Seniors, and Olympic qualifying. “Those qualifying standards are not easy to attain.’’