The Herald Leonard Ncube Victoria Falls Reporter Long distance public bus operators met Ministry of Transport and Infrastructural Development officials to thrash out modalities of resuming inter-city passenger travel with operators hoping long distance buses will resume operations soon. Government early this week approved the resumption of intercity travel following the re-opening of schools for examination classes and the resumption of domestic tourism. But the announcement of the latest easing of the lockdown stressed that operators would have to re-register, that there would be public health regulations to be followed, and that buses may have to be rechecked mechanically. Long distance public transport operators parked their buses when Government suspended intercity travel as the country effected a national lockdown in March. On Tuesday, Government said transport operators are now required to first register with the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructural Development to ensure that they strictly comply with the standard operating procedures for their sector in line with WHO guidelines. Operators met Transport officials yesterday to discuss the proposed guidelines for resuming services. In an interview, Coach and Bus Operators Association chief executive Mr Aleck Kautsiro said operators were happy to resume operations. “Approval by Cabinet is just the beginning of a process to get buses back on the road. We had a meeting where most members were represented. We went through standard operating procedures and requirements proposed by Government and everyone is happy as implementing them will not be a challenge,” he said. Mr Kautsiro said operators whose permits and licences were in order may start operating as soon as they meet Government requirements. “It may not be immediate, but gradually people will start coming back. Some may start this weekend if their permits are still valid and they get registered in line with the required Covid-19 protocols as stated by Government. Government has said it wants operators to operate viably hence everyone is excited,” said Mr Kautsiro. Extra City Coaches, which services many routes including Harare-Bulawayo and routes to Victoria Falls hopes to resume operations this weekend. “We have made plans like putting necessary Covid-19 prevention equipment at all loading points as we try to meet WHO guidelines as demanded for by Government. People are likely to see action this weekend and we will start with a few buses as we assess the environment,” said Extra City managing director Mr David Masimira. Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Joel Biggie Matiza confirmed that some operators had started approaching Government seeking to register to resume servicing their routes. “Some have started coming. We appreciate that they have been out of business for a long time, but they should register to start operating because the position remains that if you don’t comply you won’t operate,” said Minister Matiza.