The Herald Sports Reporter
PROMISING young boxer, Takudzwa Musinamwana, says he is looking forward to taking his fighting career to the next level as he hopes to turn professional when the sport returns. The Midlands-based Musinamwana joined Legend Boxing Club in Zvishavane this year after Patrick Masters, who runs the stable, was impressed by his record. “I joined the Legend Boxing club this year in June. Prior to that, I was with Victoria Falls Boxing Academy. “My last fight was on February 3, in Tsholotsho. I was linked with Patrick Masters by the late Morgan Maphosa, when he spoke to him about my record, and he was impressed. “I am just starting there but my goal is to turn professional when boxing resumes. “I am looking forward to it, I have been working towards that. And, I hope, I will have a fruitful relationship with Mr Masters and he will help me achieve my goal,” said Musinamwana. The flyweight boxer said boxing is a way of his life. “I am looking forward to achieving a lot through this sport,’’ he said. “I am hoping it will turn around my life and that it will help me make something out of my life.’’ Musinamwana has competed in various tournaments and, from 28 bouts, he has lost just one. “My flyweight boxer, Takudzwa Musinamwana, will be making his pro debut soon when boxing returns, medical don, contract signed,’’ Masters said. “We are only waiting to pay our licences to the board. He will be fighting on my first boxing promotions. “Our first promotions will be dedicated to our father, friend, mentor, the late Morgan Maphosa, he reminds me of the days when Madam Lorraine Muringi was still promoting boxing.” The clubs has four professionals and five amateurs. Meanwhile, Monalisa Sibanda says she appreciate Government’s support, through the athletes relief fund, to help them deal with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I really appreciate what the government has done . . . As a Christian I have learnt to appreciate everything I get. “There are young boxers we had recruited and you can tell they are motivated after this.’’ For elite athletes, like Sibanda, they are getting $8 000 and she has already received her share.