The Herald Ivan Zhakata Court Correspondent AN accountant in the Ministry of Defence and War Veterans Affairs yesterday offered $300 for the maintenance of his three minor children, just 10 percent of what he claimed was his salary, with the suspicious magistrate wanting to see proof. Dzikoti Mashandu was accused by his wife Tariro Mapfumo of neglecting their children and failing to provide for their needs. She wanted an upward variation from $100 to $9 000, saying the money Mashandu was paying was not enough for the children’s upkeep. Mapfumo told Harare Civil Court magistrate Mrs Tafadzwa Miti that she did not know how much Mashandu earned since he kept his salary a secret. Mashandu offered $300 for the children before telling the court that he earns $3 000 and has a lot of other responsibilities. He admitted that he was an accountant at the Ministry of Defence and War Veterans Affairs, but failed to produce his payslip when asked by Mrs Miti to do so, saying he had not been receiving them for the past three months. Mrs Miti told Mashandu that he was not taking the court seriously since he was lying about his salary and ordered him to bring proof of income before postponing the matter to today for further hearing and ruling. In another case, a police officer Faines Charekera stationed in Murewa took her ex-husband Earl Chinyani to court demanding an upward variation of maintenance for one child from $150 to $4 500. Charekera told the court that Chinyani was a manager at Shumbalo Investments in Murewa and earns more than $17 000, but was refusing to take care of his child. She said she had to file the case in a Harare court because Chinyani was well connected with the Murewa Magistrate Court officials and is seen on several occasions taking the magistrates and other court officials out for lunch. “He is very influential in Murewa, that is why I had to report this case in Harare,” she said. “I have reported my case in Murewa several times to no avail that is why I had to come here. I want him to pay $4 500 and I pay another $4 500 so that we meet half way.” Chinyani offered $400, saying he was not employed, but was a front man for Shumbalo Investments earning $1 500 per month. He said he was married to another woman and they have three children whom he is taking care of. Mrs Miti ordered Chinyani to bring his EcoCash statement for the past three months and his proof of earnings before postponing the matter to September 28. She also ordered Charekera to go and get Chinyani’s proof of income at Shimbalo Investments.