The Herald The return of children to class this month should not make schools potential risk areas for the spread of Covid-19, as the necessary precautions to take exist, which most schools should by now have put in place. As long as the right precautions are taken and religiously observed at home, on the way to school and at school, there is no need to fear for the learners and educators. This is exactly what the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education has been working on over the last few months, putting everything in place for safe return of schoolchildren. In fact, the situation calls upon all stakeholders — teachers, parents, education officials and learners — to play their part in ensuring the environment is safe for everyone. What is important is that those in the education sector have already gained some experience when schools were opened for writing examinations in June. The success of that exercise should provide lessons on how schools can successfully be handled to avoid the spread of Covid-19 this time around. The only difference is that the schools are now receiving a high number of children as compared to the time they had those writing the June examinations. The re-opening of schools also extends to primary schools that are going to receive those writing their Grade Seven examinations. Children writing Zimsec examinations will start lessons on September 28 and sit for the exams starting on December 1, while Cambridge examination classes will start a fortnight earlier on September 14. Cambridge examination dates are earlier as they are set internationally by a British-based board. Having experienced Covid-19, which has affected a number of Zimbabweans, it is common cause that many people are now well aware of how the virus is spread and how it can be contained. But this should not breed complacency among education stakeholders. The basic hygiene protocols should be religiously observed to ensure that there is safety at the schools. Schools authorities should ensure they play their role by putting measures at their premises that reassure the safety of the learners and their teachers. The first day of classes should be reserved for orientation sessions for the returning learners, teachers and the general staff to ensure that everyone is clear on what to do going forward. Nothing should be left to chance, as everyone should be made aware of their responsibilities in preventing the spread of Covid-19. The school authorities should always be alert in terms of monitoring the learners and the teachers so that those who may develop signs and symptoms of the disease are quickly isolated. The authorities should always maintain attendance registers to ensure they quickly notice absentees, and take keen interest to find out the reasons for failure to attend lessons. This calls for cooperation between the school authorities and the parents and guardians who should provide proper information if there are any health complications on the child. It is widely expected that all the schools are already equipped with temperature screening gadgets. Face masks and sanitisers should be made available to the learners and teachers, and putting on face masks should be tightly enforced. The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, through its district offices, should constantly monitor compliance by schools in adhering to Covid-19 precautions. On the other hand, district offices must keep communication lines with schools open, and appoint specific officials who constantly keep in touch with schools. This will help in quick reaction whenever a problem arises at a school because the officials can easily get in touch with their counterparts at the Ministry of Health and Child Care. Parents and guardians also have a huge role to play as the schools re-open to ensure that children are safe. Before they reinforce the importance of following Covid-19 precautions to the children, parents and guardians must make sure they do observe the measures themselves. This is because a careless parent or guardian might end up infecting the child, who will become a risk to classmates and their families. It is important that it all starts from the home where all the hygienic precautions should be reinforced and religiously observed. Another huge responsibility also falls on those who will transport the children to school. Whoever will operate transport facilities to carry the pupils should ensure that the vehicles are constantly disinfected. The transporters should screen temperatures before the children are on board as the first line of isolating those exhibiting signs of Covid-19. Those without face masks should not be allowed on board, while the transporters should carry sanitisers which should be used before boarding. It is the responsibility of the parents and the school authorities to ensure that the transporters adhere to the precautionary measures against Covid-19. It should be emphasised to pupils who walk to school that they should always practice social distancing on their way, even if they are good friends. Otherwise the roadmap which the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education has come up with should be enough to reassure learners, teachers, parents and guardians that the schools are safe for reopening. What is important is to continuously emphasise good hygiene, washing of hands with soap under running water or sanitisation, social distancing and wearing of masks.