The Herald Crime Reporter Musa Taj Abdul, commonly known as Salim Rahman (46), who was arrested in Beitbridge last month after he had dramatically evaded police for close to two decades, has for years been suspected of working with others listed as Zimbabwe’s most wanted hard-core criminals in armed robberies. Some of these hard-core criminals died during shoot-outs with detectives in separate incidents and in almost all of these cases, Musa Taj Abdul, alias Musa Mohammed or Keddha, managed to escape. Among those believed to be professional criminals were Gift Gibson Mwale alias Give Tyres or David Phiri, Godfrey Konzemvu Zondai Marimbiri alias Godzebvu, Felix Mwariwa, Patrick Mutawu alias Gandanga, Peter Mujuru, Fanuel Zebediah Gwashu (alias Tsano Zebe), Shame Chirambamhande Mlambo alias Bla Gibby, Charles Ganda Mbombo, Assan Koleka Robinson and Lucky Matambanadzo. In June 2009, police released the names of 40 criminals wanted by the police for committing armed robberies countrywide, including the above named. And Musa Taj Abdul was high on the list. On July 13, 2009, Musa Taj Abdul was one of the two robbers that escaped when three armed robbers — Give Tyres (55 years by then), Godfrey Godzebvu and Felix Mwariwa — were shot dead after they opened fire on police detectives near Snake World at Somerby Estates. They died in the gun fight two hours after they had hijacked a Mercedes-Benz at a home in Mount Pleasant. Mwale and Mwariwa were armed with pistols and fired shots at the CID Crack Team following a raid at a bottle store at Somerby Store, about 20km outside the city at around 10am. Police recovered the stolen vehicle and an FN rifle which the gang had picked up at one of their hideouts in the city in a bid to commit more robberies. The car was parked at the back of the store while two of their suspected accomplices — Musa Taj Abdul and another unidentified armed robber — escaped a few minutes before police arrived at the scene. Police then launched a manhunt for the two. The then police chief spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Wayne Bvudzijena said the gang — armed with two pistols — hijacked the vehicle soon after the owner parked it at a house in Mount Pleasant. The five, who were travelling in an unidentified getaway vehicle, pounced on the man before ordering him to comply with their orders. They forcibly took two mobile phones and his wallet before driving off in the vehicle. There was also a laptop and other valuable goods in the car. It is understood that the gang then drove to one of their hideouts where they fixed a fake registration number plate — AAA 0080 — in front of the vehicle. Police launched a manhunt immediately after the robbery and, after getting information that the gang was in Somerby, a CID team drove there where they confronted three of the suspects — Mwale, Godzebvu and Mwariwa — who were believed to have been drinking. Police believe Musa Taj Abdul and the other suspect were carrying out surveillance along the Harare-Bulawayo Road, a few metres from the scene. Mwale and Mwariwa, who were armed with pistols, then fired shots at the detectives who immediately returned fire as they were then entitled to do. In the gunfight, Mwale, Godzebvu and Mwariwa died on the spot, while the other two fled. Mwale was found in possession of a Malawian passport under the name Gift Chusari, while Godzebvu’s passport indicated that he had recently arrived in the country from South Africa. Mwale, who was believed to be behind a spate of armed robberies, had also been on the run since 1999. Godzebvu had been caught before. In June 2006, he was shot and injured by police in the Avenues area in Harare in another gunfight and was brought to court for allegedly breaching the Firearms Act. But he was granted bail, which he jumped, and returned to crime, police believe. In April, 2007, Musa Taj Abdul, Patrick Mutawu, Mujuru, Mwale and Fanuel Zebediah Gwashu, among other robbers, were arrested after a serious exchange of gunshots while partying at what they thought was a safe house in Warren Park, Harare. Police detectives raided the house following a tip off, arrested the gang and took them to court. They were given bail and continued with their criminal activities. In March this year, Musa Taj Abdul escaped when five of his accomplices were killed in a shoot-out with detectives along Glenara Avenue South in Harare. Two others, Godfrey Mupamhanga (27) and Prince Zakeo (25), survived the shoot-out with no injuries. A third suspect, Stanely Mateko, also survived the shooting, but with injuries and was placed under hospital custody. However, last month, police arrested seven most wanted armed robbers, including Musa Taj Abdul, and a Beitbridge police officer who was allegedly harbouring the robbers. Abdul was arrested in dramatic fashion in Beitbridge on a Monday night, with dog teams playing a leading role, along with former Masvingo Central police officer Rudolf Kanhanga alias Tapiwa Munatsi (29), Beitbridge-based police officer Tapiwa Mangoma alias Tapa (27), Liberty Mupamhanga (29), Prince Makodza (31), Godfrey Mupamhanga (27), Charles Lundu (47), and Innocent Jairos (32), all of Harare. Police swooped on the seven suspected robbers and their police officer host in the Mashavire area, now known as Tshitaudze suburbs. The suspects were caught unawares by a team of detectives, Support Unit and the canine unit. Since August last year, Abdul is alleged to have commanded a gang of no less than 10 robbers armed with lethal rifles such as the AK47.