The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS and champions, FC Platinum, have already started engaging players whose contracts are expiring at the end of this year. Both clubs yesterday said they haven’t found any sticking point as yet. The Glamour Boys had assembled a competitive side ahead of the 2020 season which, however, now looks uncertain. Club executive chairman, Isaiah Mupfurutsa, yesterday said the PSL, ZIFA and the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe should come up with a determination on the best way forward. “This is something we are hoping to resolve as a club, with the help of PSL, ZIFA, FIFA and, indeed, the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe,” said Mupfurutsa. “Everything to be done, I think, should be in line with the recommendations from these football boards. “It is a fact that contracts have been affected by this lockdown and we are, at the moment, engaging stakeholders on the way forward. “We have been paying salaries to players in honour of the contracts, which we signed, but due to lockdown, they haven’t been able to perform their duties. “What we are calling for is to have a fair position that allows parties to come to a mutual agreement on the way forward. “I think football leaders should come up with a determination on the way forward.” There are several players, some who have not kicked a ball in Dynamos colours, who may end up walking away. One of them is highly-rated Young Warriors midfielder, Juan Mutudza, who is on loan from Herentals. Tinotenda Chiunye is on loan from Aces Youth Soccer Academy. “We have started engaging with key stakeholders and I am glad to say that we have so far recorded positive steps towards that. “It’s always good to keep the players, as the coach still needs them. So, the negotiations have gone well so far.” Dynamos coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, has spelt his desire to retain the whole team. “Look, we had grouped a squad which we thought would do well in the league in the 2020 season,’’ he said. “It’s unfortunate that due to circumstances beyond human control, the season failed to kick off on the date it had initially been scheduled to. “I am, obviously, worried that a number of players have their contracts running out this December. “Maybe, the season will kick off before December, maybe, it will kick off next year, I don’t really know. “But, I am concerned about players whose contracts are running out. “I am glad the executive are dealing with those issues but what I can tell you is that I wish to retain the entire squad which I have at the moment.” FC Platinum are seeking to tie down four of their players whose contracts run out this December. The Zvishavane side’s spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, said they have started engaging their players, in line with recommendations and guidance from ZIFA, PSL and FUZ. “That is something which we are currently working on. I am glad that we haven’t had any sticking points in our negotiations with players involved in all this,’’ she said. “We are still negotiating although we haven’t tied anyone down as yet but, very soon, we will be putting pen to paper.’’