The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE international netball star, Sharon Bwanali, loves her sport, so much she even sacrificed her marriage for it. The 23-year-old is one of the country’s top players. The Gems goal attack’s breakthrough came in 2011, when she first represented the country, at the Confederation of Schools Sport Association of Southern Africa Games in Namibia. She was 14. She was also a member of the trailblazing Zimbabwe side at the World Cup last year. “My first trip was in 2011, when we went for the Cossasa Games in Namibia,’’ she said. “I could not believe it, wearing the national colours and representing my country. “I was so excited and my parents were happy. I bought a blanket for my mom from my earnings. “I was in Form Two then and I was so happy because I then said to myself I can actually do something through netball. “It has taught me a lot and I think I have achieved a lot. When we came back from England I bought myself a car, I got a job with the ZDF, so it has been rewarding for me. “If I was not a netball player, I don’t know what I would be doing.’’ Her mother, Tatenda, wanted her to channel her energy towards her school work. Her determination paid off when she moved from Herentals to Pamushana High School, on scholarship in 2011. “I didn’t want her to play, at first, because I wanted her to focus on her school work,’’ her mother said. “But, with time I realised how talented she was, so, I would encourage her to balance her school work and sport. “When she got a scholarship, I was over the moon. She would go for Nash tournaments, regional games and she would give me some money when she won, so I bought a lot of stuff from that money. “I kept on encouraging her until she went to England. “I am proud of her, even my young sister, my relatives, they are so proud of her and what she has achieved.’’ Last year, the athlete said, she touched the heavens. “Playing at that big stage, I believe I did well, I gave it my best shot and showed my talent,’’ she said. ‘‘Netball is not just a passion for me but a gift from God. ‘‘The World Cup in England made me appreciate that because I gave it my all.’’ She even sacrificed her marriage to pursue the sport she loves. “I was married for five years, staying with my husband, but my in-laws did not want me to play. ‘‘They didn’t like the attention that comes with the sport and the way we dress when we are on the court. ‘‘It affected my relationship with my husband but I could not leave the sport I love,” Bwanali said.