The Herald Arts Reporter
Award-winning model and philanthropist Tapiwanashe Mutsimba has been nominated for the Humanitarian Excellence Awards scheduled for Delhi, India, at a date to be announced. Mutsimba, a Development Studies student at Midlands State University (MSU) was earlier this year acknowledged by the university for raising the campus flag high. He was also named as one of the most influential models of 2020 by the Influencers Magazine. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Mutsimba said the award meant a lot to him as it will go a long way in boosting his career. “I have been nominated for the Humanitarian Excellence Awards in Delhi, India, which will take place at a date to be announced sometime in November this year according to the event organisers,” he said. “I am so excited and the recognition will also help develop, not only me, but the sector as well, as it will push projects and give value addition to the models too.” Mutsimba said the nomination was a result of his various charity works he has been doing across Zimbabwe. “From the look of things, I think I am the only African or melanin guy to be nominated among whites and Asians,” he said. “Actually, this is my first nomination outside Africa and I am very grateful. I would like to thank God who took me this far because my name is now out there and this is a preparation of my journey to Mr World. Whether I win this or not, I am still grateful to be nominated. “The nomination came as a result of my charity works which include distribution of stationery to people living with disabilities, paying school fees for less privileged children and fighting against gender -based violence, among other things, thus upholding the Sustainable Development Goals 4 and 5 which are about quality education and gender equality.” Mutsimba said he had “something” coming up from West Africa. The Humanitarian Excellence Awards 2020 will this year honour only 51 best humanitarian profiles – 20 females, 20 males and 11 non-governmental organisations. The prestigious award will be given only on the basis of the work done by people in promoting humanity or serving humanity in commemoration of the World Humanitarian Day.