The Herald Albert Marufu in LONDON, England UNITED Kingdom-based youth coach, Memory Ngwenya, has joined the growing list of Zimbabweans becoming English Football Association registered player intermediaries. Ngwenya is the daughter to the late Zimbabwe and Dynamos defender, Shadreck Ngwenya. She joins fellow Zimbabweans — Chamunoda Musanhu, Ellen Chiwenga and Kevin Ngwenya — as some of the registered player intermediaries. Her new status has seen her quit her coaching position at the Elite Development FC, where she coached the Under-9 Boys and Girls’ respective teams. “Most of the young people I have coached and know are now at an age where they will need to be represented,’’ she said. “I want to be part of their journey. “That’s why I thought of becoming an registered FA intermediary. “Secondly, as an intermediary, I must not be affiliated to a team but players. That has forced me to leave my job as a coach. “I started coaching when my boy started playing football at the age of six. I used to coach him in the park and I am happy with how his career, and academic studies, are panning out.’’ Ngwenya is an Early Childhood Teacher. She was introduced to football, at the age of five, by her late father Shadreck, who bought her first soccer ball. “My father remains my inspiration. He used to tell me never to start anything until I am sure of finishing it. “I am still learning and my target is to make as many contacts, with United Kingdom clubs, as I can. “Obviously, I will be marketing Zimbabwean football, but my main target are players that I have coached when they were little. “I have already established a relationship with their parents, and they trust me, having worked with them before. I will miss coaching, but I am prepared for this challenge,” she said. She also called for co-operation within the Zimbabwean community. “I have a approached a number of Zimbabweans, here in the United Kingdom, with the view of working together,’’ she said. “But, I have received a cold shoulder. I have reached out to most top names in the United Kingdom, but they do not get back to me. “It will be nice to work together. “I have special praise for Isaac Mbedzi, who is based in Canada. Even “Biya” (Thulani Ncube) is also doing wonders.’’ Ngwenya started coaching in 2005 but really got serious when her son Paul turned six. “It is not going to be easy, I know, because it is a male-dominated environment,’’ she said. “Because of my background, I have challenged certain practices at some clubs, and have since gained respect from both parents and coaches.’’