The Herald LONDON — Arsenal want to secure the future of three players as they look to tie down Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang before the start of the new season. Aubameyang has agreed a new three year £250 000-a-week deal in principle, with the club hoping to announce it which would be a huge boost for Mikel Arteta. The Gunners boss also wants to fend off Wolves ’ interest in Ainsley Maitland-Niles after the midfielder celebrated his 23rd birthday with his first senior England call-up. Maitland-Niles has three years left on his current deal. He is not one of the club’s top earners but if he stays then he could also be in line for a new contract. They are also desperate to keep keeper Emiliano Martinez, with the club ready to hand him a fresh deal after Arteta picked him ahead of Bernd Leno for the Community Shield. That was a huge statement of faith from Arteta in Martinez who has made it clear that he wants to be No.1 but faces a battle with Leno for the jersey. Aston Villa are among the clubs interested but Arteta does not want to sell Martinez or Maitland-Niles and is hoping to raise cash from other sales to help carry on funding his summer transfer plans. They are close to completing a £27m deal for Lille defender Gabriel while they also want a midfielder with Atletico Madrid’s Thomas Partey in their sights and they have also held talks over another loan deal for Dani Ceballos. Rob Holding is set to leave on loan with Newcastle keen while Matteo Guendouzi is up for sale after falling out of favour last season. Meanwhile, Aubameyang rejected “two other bids” before agreeing a new three-year, £250 000-a-week contract at Arsenal, which will cost the Gunners £39million over the course of the deal. That’s according to transfer expert Fabrizio Romano, with an agreement now all but finalised. Aubameyang provided yet another bold underline of his quality with the only Arsenal goal inside 90 minutes in the Community Shield win over Liverpool. The Gabon international also netted the decisive spot-kick in the penalty shoot-out, which the north London outfit won 5-4 after a 1-1 draw. The 31-year-old, who has five goals in his past three Wembley appearances, has now scored 10 goals in his last 10 games including seven of Arsenal’s last eight across all competitions. After 29 strikes last term he will be keen to break the 30-goal barrier this term — and will do so in a much-improved side based on the performances of Arteta’s side in recent months. — The Mirror.