The Herald PARIS. — Paris Saint-Germain sporting director Leonardo has blasted the French Football Association after they failed to inform the club Kylian Mbappe had tested positive for coronavirus. It was announced on Monday Mbappe had returned a positive Covid-19 test and he has since left the French camp and played no part in last night’s Nations League fixture with Croatia. “He was placed away from the group after receiving the results, at the end of training, before going back to his own home in the evening,” the FFF said in a statement confirming Mbappe’s positive test. “Like the entire delegation, Kylian Mbappe had undergone a test prior to the games of the international break. “The result was negative, like the one last Wednesday, at the request of UEFA, before Sweden against France.” But Leonardo is furious the FFF did not tell PSG about Mbappe’s positive test and the club only found out via media reports. “I find it completely unacceptable that we learn from the press that one of our players is positive,” he told RMC . “They released a statement and sent the player home but no-one from the Federation has communicated this to us. “No one has contacted us.” Leonardo said Mbappe had to be contacted directly for confirmation of the news, adding: “Exactly. He is at home and we learned that from him. “Are we managing? Everyone gives lectures to PSG, that we’re poorly managed. But when this happens, it’s still PSG that have to manage the problems, despite not knowing about them. PSG are always the bad guys in the story. “It is a lack of respect to never communicate with the club. We did not speak with anyone. We only spoke with Mbappe. We were the ones who had to put the pressure on. It is unacceptable.” The French champions will be without Mbappe for at least three games and possibly four as they kick off their Ligue 1 campaign against Lens on Thursday. The World Cup winner is the seventh PSG player to test positive for coronavirus, alongside fellow stars including Neymar and Angel Di Maria. — The Mirror.