The Herald Sports Reporter FORMER CAPS United public relations manager, Joyce Kapota, says she has embarked on a mission to help transform the face of sport in Zimbabwe. Kapota, who is a FIFA administrator from the CIES Nelson Mandela University, yesterday launched a sports consultancy entity called Amor’ Sport. It will introduce new services and products to Zimbabwean sport, such as concierge services for clubs, and professional translation services for languages such as French, Arabic and Portuguese. They are also offering sports management consulting, mental health in sport, sport medicine, sports brand developing and marketing and translation for local and international athletes and teams. “Amor’ Sport intends to harness the power of sport to be a vehicle for achieving an inclusive, equal and empowered society. “Through offering unique, and tailor-made solutions to sport administration issues, Amor’ Sport will increase the effectiveness and efficiency of sport in the country and the world at large. “Amor’ Sport offers cutting edge techniques and approaches to administration that can modernise any sporting code,” said Kapota. The seasoned sports administrator said the company derive their passion for excellence, and empowerment, of marginalised demographics through sport. Kapota is a graduate of the Women’s Sport Leadership Academy, which is run by the Anita White Foundation, in partnership with the University of Chichester. Her group project, titled “Research on Quality of Governance for football Associations in Africa,” was adjudged to be the best during her FIFA-CIES stint at the Nelson Mandela University, in South Africa, in 2018. She graduated from her FIFA sport management studies and is part of the FIFA Universities network. She is also a ZIFA Level 1 coach and holds a FIFA grassroots qualification. Kapota is a panellist on the Annual National Sports Awards where she serves as vice chairperson. She travelled with Premiership kings FC Platinum during their CAF campaign in Tunisia as translator in 2019.