The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor
NOW, the battleground has shifted, the plot has darkened and they have even started labelling him as a shameless age cheat. They are now accusing him, of fooling South African football clubs, by using a fake birth certificate. With Kaizer Chiefs struggling to complete what was expected to be a procession towards their first league title in five years, the Warriors talisman has become the target of some vicious attacks. While Billiat is having his worst season, since arriving in South Africa 10 years ago, some of the attacks have turned personal, with the Zimbabwean being blamed for everything that is wrong at Chiefs right now. Of course, a single goal, scored in September last year, which means he has completed exactly a year without being on target, is a pathetic return for such a footballer who is expected to always provide the leading light. Given Chiefs signed Billiat to provide them with the X-Factor they needed, to transform them into champions again, and they are paying him more than any other footballer in that country, it’s normal that he should carry the biggest burden of expectations. And, when he struggles, as has been the case this season, Billiat should also be criticised sharply, because there should always be a return on investment and, right now, the Amakhosi are not getting that from their leading man. However, the latest decision by one of the South African football legends to hit him below the belt, by even questioning his age, has torched a storm. Mlungisi “Professor’’ Ngubane, who has had coaching stints at Maritzburg United, Black Leopards and the Namibian national team, told KickOff.com he was now being forced to question Billiat’s age . This followed Chiefs’ latest setback, a 0-1 defeat at the hands of Bidvest Wits, on Sunday, in the tight championship race. “Billiat is playing like a player who came here having reduced his age,” Mlungisi said. “Now, he’s trying but it’s no longer happening. Maybe, he is not even 29. He can’t play like this. Earning so much money and you play like that? “The heart and the mind wants to do it but the body refuses.” In fact, Billiat isn’t 29, but turned 30 last month. His comments have drawn sharp criticism from this side of the Limpopo. “It’s diabolic, it looks like the beginning of a sick narrative,’’ said local football pundit, Makomborero “Gold’’ Mutimukulu, who works for the Zimpapers Television Network, on Twitter. “He would have insulted the whole Billiat clan. Such a clown to be nicknamed Professor, it’s a joke.’’ Mutimukulu said he had no problem with Billiat being criticised for his performances on the pitch but, when the critics turn personal, he would always step in to defend his countryman. “Khama can be criticised, he should be, but questioning his age now is devilish,’’ he said. “Good thing is they can only blame Khama for so much. “He can’t be the only thing is wrong at Kaizer Chiefs, hell no. And, @KickOffMagazine are playing along in the hunt for clicks. “That’s quote about age wouldn’t pass an editor who is fair. But, oh well, what do I know?’’ A local football fan, Tendayi Mudadirwa Greene, also joined the debate on Twitter with a defensive shield to protect the Warriors talisman. “Khama is the proverbial sacrificial lamb, since he earns the big bucks, they expect him to perform extraordinarily,’’ he said. “His performance must be top notch, every single day. Form is temporary.’’ Ahead of the match on Sunday, his Zimbabwean counterpart, Willard Katsande, was forced to come out in defence of his struggling teammate. “I know Khama is a big boy, he’s my little brother and I always spend time with him, always telling him how important he is to the club and the setup,” Katsande told the media. “I always tell him, ‘You are our spearhead, you are our best player, so, you need to know that you are the best.’ “We are coming from five months, without playing football, so, obviously there’s a little bit of rust, but what you can do is contribute towards the team.” “So, at the moment, yes, he’s not getting there where we know him, but look at his contribution to the club and the team, he’s very, very useful and that’s why he’s always selected to play. “Goals will come, we just need to be patient with him and give him confidence, which is what he needs at the moment, and we will try to put him in a comfortable position whereby all he thinks about is just playing well and helping the team. “The most important thing, as much as you are a good player, you need to be a team player. So, basically, this guy is a big player but he’s a team player.” However, Billiat’s numbers, since he started his adventure in the South African Premiership, which appeared to peak about five years ago during his time at Mamelodi Sundowns, are drifting towards the downward trend. During the 2010/2011 season, when he was at Ajax Cape Town, he scored nine league goals in the South African Premiership and followed that with eight goals the following season. In his final season with the Urban Warriors, during the 2012/2013 campaign, he scored four league goals and a similar number of league goals the following season, as he started his adventure, at Sundowns. However, during the 2015/2016 season, Billiat scored seven goals, following that up with 12 goals the following season, his best in Supa Diski so far, and scored 16 league goals, eight in 2016/2017 and a similar number of 2017/2018. He then moved to Chiefs and scored just five league goals, in his first campaign at the Amakhosi, before scoring just one league, so far this season. His campaign, this season, has also been hampered by injury with 46 days being lost between December 23, last year, and February 7, this year, with a hamstring strain.