The Herald FBC Bank has announced the launch of Noku, a smart Digital Assistant who
has been equipped with the capability of assisting clients with executing
banking and insurance services on Whatsapp at any time of the day…24/7.
Noku also allows anyone to open an FBC Instant Account or Mobile Moola
wallet on WhatsApp without visiting a physical branch. Existing FBC account-holders who are registered for Mobile Moola can start
banking with Noku on Whatsapp by saving the number 0776 670 211 on their
smartphones as a phone contact. Once Noku’s contact is saved ,one can
initiate a conversation with Noku in the same way they do when chatting with
a friend or relative on whatsapp. One can start the conversation with Noku
with any greeting message of their choice such as ‘Greetings’, ‘Hi’, ‘Whatsapp’,
‘Etaa’, ‘Maswera sei?’ or ‘Ndeipi’ to start banking or insuring with Noku. Noku, can serve clients with the following services:
Banking
 Balance Enquiry
 Mini Statement
 Bill Payments
 Internal Transfers
 Zipit to Other Banks
 Zipit to Cell
 Mobile Banking Pin change
 Block Card Functionality
 Beneficiary Management Insurance Services
 Third party insurance
 Third party and Zinara licence
 Zinara licence only Announcing the development, Roy Nyakunuwa(Acting Head- FBC Group
Marketing) said, “ FBC Bank is dedicated towards supporting sustainable
digital processes and creative innovations for driving the delivery of superb
service across click-only or digital banking channels. The bank takes pride in
utilising state-of-the art banking systems to offer exceptionally convenient
services to our valued clients. It is against this background that we have seen it
fit to develop Noku which is our gift to FBC Clients in line with our new
promise … You Matter Most ”
“ Noku is an extension of our mobile financal platform which is available on
the (*220#) platform. We launched Noku with a crystal-clear objective of
improving customer experience by allowing clients to transact on
Whatsapp. Noku enables customers to make use of the familiar Whatsapp
chat, which is more interactive and personal” added Roy Nyakunuwa. FBC clients will enjoy the following benefits when banking or insuring with
Noku:
Instant access to banking and insurance services without the need to
visit a physical branch.
No need to download an additional application, client can use the
everyday chat messenger (WhatsApp)
Providing Banking Services on the preferred channel
Whatsapp is a cost effective communication channel
Can be used using social media bundles, Wi-Fi, and mobile data
Customer focused user experience
24/7 availability FBC is a diversified and innovative financial services provider using
technology to offer top-notch financial services to the market. The institution
has driven simplicity by automating the account opening process for everyone
using a popular and user-friendly platform such as Whatsapp. Issued on 17 September 2020
Roy Nyakunuwa- Acting Head of FBC Group Marketing
Group Marketing Division
FBC Centre, 45 Nelson Mandela Avenue
Harare, Zimbabwe
Phone : +263 242 707057/704608/783206
Cell : +263 731 306 861
Email : public.relations@fbc.co.zw
Website : www.fbc.co.zw