The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA have indicated they are going to appoint an interm Warriors team manager to help kickstart the preparations for the upcoming AFCON qualifier against Algeria. The post has been vacant, since last year, when the national association dissolved all the technical team posts. This followed the disappointing performance by the Warriors at the 2019 AFCON finals in Egypt. A number of candidates have expressed interest and the shortlisted individuals are due for interviews to be conducted by a private human resources consultancy firm. ZIFA president, Felton Kamambo, said the association were likely to have an interim arrangement to get the ball rolling. “The recruitment exercise for the national team manager is underway and the interviews are likely to start in three weeks’ time,’’ he said. “We have engaged a private human resources consultant to finalise the recruitment process. “We have to give them the latitude, to work on the shortlist, and to conduct the interviews, so that we get the best candidate for the job. “But, we are likely to have an interim appointment, in the meantime, because there is a lot of work that needs to be done on the ground. “Remember, we have the game against Algeria coming up and work has to start now.’’ The job has attracted interest from local and foreign-based candidates. United States-based former Warriors star Vitalis Takawira’s name has been thrown into the fray. Takawira was a member of the Dream Team under German coach, Reinhard Fabisch. It remains to be seen if he is prepared to leave the United States and come back home to reunite with the Warriors. The challenges to international travel, in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, makes his recruitment a huge doubt. Wellington Mpandare, who has been the Warriors team manager for the past few years, is now the favourite for the job. Also believed to be in the race is the 2006 Soccer Star of the Year Clement Matawu, who recently graduated with a Bachelor of Science Honours Degree in Sport Science and Coaching from NUST. Former Warriors striker Agent “Ajira” Sawu was also offered the job but has now been moved to the junior national sides. “The Warriors manager’s position is part of a massive ZIFA project to revamp football in the country,” said Kamambo. “We need someone who is thorough for this position and the interviews cover meticulous aspects and the best candidate will be appointed. “The Warriors are the country’s flagship team and we need a well-groomed character whose qualities are consistent with our values not only as an association but as a country.” Kamambo said ZIFA are also in the process of recruiting office staff, including technical directors, as they intend to revamp their operations. He said the association have since received the go-ahead from FIFA to embark on such a project.