The Herald Sports Reporter ONE of the country’s top netball umpires, Agnes Chiroodza, believes with proper structures, the sport could surpass its previous achievements. Chiroodza has been in the trenches, for over two decades, with her first umpiring duties coming in 1998. Back then, she took charge in social, and lower league, matches. She kept upgrading herself, finding her way to regional and continental competitions. She quit her position, as the Zimbabwe Netball Association fixture secretary last year, to concentrate on her role as an umpire. ‘’I got the opportunity to showcase my talent in Botswana at the Netball Youth World Cup (qualifiers), in 2016, and was assessed by the International Netball Federation assessors,’’ she said. ‘’I got an Africa B Grade. “Local umpires, if given the opportunity, I don’t think they will fail to make it because we have good umpires but they are not given the chance. ‘’We should have many local umpires officiating outside Zimbabwe. “It’s painful, as local umpires, we want to be there at the World Cup but our leadership is suppressing our talent because of personal grudges. “There is need for the Ministry to intervene.’’ A teacher by profession, Chiroodza describes herself as an all-rounder, holding several coaching and officiating certificates for a number of sporting disciplines. “I am a qualified Physical Education Sport and Mass Displays teacher at Glenara High School in Mazowe District. “I am an all-rounder sportsperson. I’m a holder of volleyball coaching certificate, volleyball certificate of refereeing, athletics coaching Level Two, athletics officiating, basketball coaching and umpiring, cricket coaching, softball Level One coaching, handball Level One coaching,” said Chiroodza. She has officiated at regional and continental events such as the African Union Sports Council Region Five Games in 2008, then known as the Zone Six Games, in South Africa. She returned to the same Games in 2010 in Swaziland, 2014 in Bulawayo and the 2016 edition in Angola. She got the Technical Official of the Year award at the 2016 Annual National Sports Awards.