The Herald Arts Reporter Buffalo Souljah might not be a household name on home soil, but is slowly conquering the world. This follows a recent deal he inked with Jamaican stable Natural Bond Entertainment and Sponge. Under the deal, the stable will be responsible for the South Africa based chanter’s marketing and public relations in the Caribbean Islands and even beyond. Buffalo’s new and promising deal seeks to cement his relation with the stable which is known for promoting reggae/dancehall artistes. Prior to this deal, the Mufakose born chanter’s song “No man is bigger than God” featured once featured on the Porus riddim done by the same stable. Any array of Jamaican artistes led by Beenie Man, I Octane and Jahmiel also featured on the same riddim where Buffalo won hearts of many with is song. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Jerome Elvie, a producer as well as the boss of Natural Bond Entertainment, could not hide his admiration of Buffalo. “This is not the first time that we have worked with Buffalo having engaged him before as a stable. “We have been in touch since then and developed to become a family where we can exchange ideas. “We have never doubted his talent and we are looking forward to a good working relationship,” said Jerome. In another interview, Buffalo who recently featured on Gold Leaf riddim produced by Jerome, said he was determined to conquer the world. “I have always wanted to man an international breakthrough and I am glad that it is shaping up now with more music to come. “As an artiste, expanding my global appeal and reach has always been my wish. “I won’t stop working hard so that I reach out many people and put Zimbabwe on the world map through music,” he said. Buffalo Souljah has also hailed Jerome for his impact in ushering him to the world. “The synergies I have created with Jerome has helped me to fulfill my dream goal to penetrate the Caribbean where it all started. “I always wanted to market my music in Jamaica and its environs and finally Jerome has been made me realsie my dream.” Meanwhile, Buffalo has lined up a Caribbean tour once the Covid-19 pandemic recedes or ends. In Africa, he has collaborated with some of the continent’s heavy-weights and back home, he is slowly winning hearts of many a fan. His collaboration titled Rugare featuring Winky D has also made him a darling of local dancehall lovers.