The Herald Court Reporter
Senior Zimbabwean lawyer, Mr Sternford Moyo, is set to become the first African to lead the International Bar Association after he was the only candidate to be nominated for the association’s presidency ahead of elections set for November. He will serve a two-year term from January next year to December 2022 as head of the association. Mr Moyo is the chairman at Scanlen and Holderness law firm. Mr Michael Green, a consultant at A and L Goodbody, Ireland, announced the pending election of Mr Moyo uncontested in his congratulatory message to the African Regional Forum last week. He described Mr Moyo as wonderfully qualified to lead IBA, having served at a high level in each division of the association, as well as in several other senior roles. “I know all of you would join me in congratulating Sternford in his achievement and also in conveying to our new (almost elect) president our best wishes during his exciting and no doubt challenging term ahead,” said Mr Green. “I am sure we will all wish to pledge our support to him in whatever way we can over the next couple of years. Africa is dearest to our hearts within the context of the association and we must continue to carry out our roles to achieve the objectives of the regional forum. “We on the advisory board are here to support the officers in achieving your goals, so please do use and include us in your thinking concerning programmes, succession and whatever else is required to ensure development of the forum and the association within Africa. I look forward to meeting you in brighter days which I hope will be in the not too distant future.” Mr Pieter Steyn confirmed that Mr Moyo, the LEX Africa stalwart, had been recommended as the unopposed candidate to stand for election as IBA president later this year. LEX Africa is a legal alliance of leading law firms in Africa in over 20 countries and is Africa’s largest legal alliance. Each member is an independent law firm whose key specialist focus is on general corporate and commercial law, as well as litigation and dispute resolution.