The Herald Prosper Dembedza Court Correspondent Nine Zimbabwe National Students Union (ZINASU), who were arrested after demonstrating in front of the Harare Magistrates Courts following the arrest of their leader Takudzwa Ngadziore, appeared in court yesterday. Takudzwa Gwaze (26), Brian Zvikomborero (26), Donald Marevanhema (27), Takudzwa Mukono (23), Arnold Mazonde (23), Talent Jinga (23), Ignatius Nxobo (23), Mitchell Lieto (22) and Nancy Njenge (22) were facing charges of participating in a gathering with intent to promote public violence or breach of peace or bigotry when they appeared before Harare magistrate Mrs Judith Taruvinga They were freed on $2 000 bail each. They will be back in court on October 30. They were ordered to continue residing at their given addresses and not to interfere with State witnesses. Their lawyer Mr Obey Shava applied for bail pending trial and the State did not oppose the application. Prosecutor Mr Sebastian Mutizirwa told the court that on September 14, 2020, the accused persons and others who are still at large gathered at the Harare Magistrates Courts entrance and disrupted the free movement of people in and out of the court. He said police were called in and arrested the nine. Ngadziore (22) appeared in court last Friday on charges of participating in a public gathering with intent to promote public violence, breach of peace or bigotry when he appeared before Harare magistrate Mrs Barbra Mateko. Prosecutor Mr Lancelotte Mutsokoti told the court that on September 8, the accused who was in the company of about 20 people who are still at large, went to Impala Car Rental along Chiremba Road in four vehicles. On arrival they waved placards denouncing the company for allegedly facilitating an abduction. The court heard that the demonstrators chanted slogans, while whistling and filming the event. As a result of the accused’s actions, Impala Car Rental company employees failed to do their work as they were forced to remain in their offices fearing for their lives.