The Herald Sports Reporter
FORMER CAPS United and Highlanders speedster, Gabriel Nyoni, has found a new home in South Africa. He was unveiled by First National Division side, Cape Umoya United, yesterday. Nyoni moved to the second-tier league, following a disappointing stint with modest Absa Premiership side Maritzburg United, in his debut season in the Supa Disk. Cape Umoya United, who finished 11th in the just-ended GladAfrica Championship, unveiled Nyoni as their first signing, as they begin preparations, for the coming season. He was released during the coronavirus lockdown, after playing 12 competitive games for the side. Cape Umoya United finished 11th in the just-ended GladAfrica Championships. “Join us in welcoming Gabriel Nyoni to ‘The Spirited Ones Family’ — our first signing for the up-coming 20/21 #GladAfrica Championship Season,” posted the club on their social media accounts. Cape Umoya United are based in Cape Town. They were re-established in 2018, following the takeover of the franchise of defunct former PSL team, Platinum Stars. Nyoni was released by Maritzburg United during the coronavirus lockdown. He had featured in 10 league games, and two knockout matches, for his side. The Zimbabwean had not yet opened his goal account, by the time the season was suspended, due to the coronavirus crisis. The forward struggled with injuries during the last 12 months. Another Zimbabwe international, Terrence Dzvukamanja, is yet to make a decision on his future after his team Bidvest Wits were sold to ambitious GladAfrica Championship side Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM). TTM intend to relocate the team to Limpopo Province where they will play their home matches at Thohoyandou Stadium. His manager, Gibson Mahachi, said Dzvukamanja will look at the options available to him in the coming weeks. “It was premature to talk about the future. He just needed to wait until the season ended then that’s probably when one starts looking at options available to him,’’ said Mahachi. “But, it will all depend with him, whether he wants to relocate with the club or he wants to move elsewhere. Remember, he still has a running contract with the club but he can still make a decision,” said Mahachi. Dzvukamanja is among Wits players, whose future remains uncertain, with the team set to be renamed Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila ahead of next season. Recent reports have indicated Mamelodi Sundowns were monitoring the Zimbabwean forward. The forward has netted eight goals, across all competitions this season, including one in the CAF Confederation Cup. Bidvest Wits will be aiming to end the 2019/20 Absa Premiership season on a high with victory over bottom-placed Polokwane City at the FNB Stadium this afternoon. The 26-year-old player joined Wits from Zimbabwean side  Ngezi Platinum FC in 2018.