The Herald AGELESS goalkeeper, Tapuwa Kapini, spent the day at his car workshop in Kempton Park, Johannesburg, yesterday, just a day after being dumped by South African Premiership club Highlands Park. Kapini was told on Tuesday, after reporting for training, that his services were no longer required. “A day well spent at the workshop, hope to see (you) soon and come and support us,’’ the Zimbabwe international tweeted, together with a photo of him fixing a car. Highlands Park’s franchise has been sold to TS Galaxy and the new coach, Dan Malesela, says Kapini is not part of his plans for the new season. “Just disappointed went for morning training today and after training the team manager told us that we are not in coaches plans, that’s life GOD knows why,’’ tweeted Kapini on Tuesday. Kapini co-owns a workshop, which fixes gearboxes in Pomona, Kempton Park. He said he had no intention of getting into fixing gearboxes until his Ford Ranger ruptured a gearbox some years ago. His attempts to fix it hit a snag, when the dealership slapped him with a R46 000 quotation, without knowing they were planting the seed for a business in the Zimbabwean shot-stopper’s mind. “My Ford Ranger had a gearbox problem, when I took it to a Ford dealership they quoted me R46 000 to install a new one,” he told the Sowetan. “I could not afford that amount. “I went to a friend of mine who had little knowledge of fixing cars. We took the gearbox out, thoroughly cleaned and examined it and put in some screws. “That’s how I got into this business. Today, we co-own Trec Gearbox Specialist business, and it is registered. “We have four employees. Most of the time I am in camp with the team and that’s when my partner Emmanuel steps up and does everything. “We fix approximately five cars a day, depending on the parts (available). If it’s cars like Toyotas, it’s easy.’’ Yesterday, Kapini also revealed how he was told he was lo longer wanted. “All I can say is that I’ve been training with the team since yesterday (Monday) when chairman Brad Kaftel handed us over to Mr Tim Sukazi and his technical department,” Kapini told Goal. “We did train and today (Tuesday), I trained in the morning. But in the morning training session, one of the officials, I think co-directors from Galaxy. I think his name is Hloni, he came to about nine or 10 players after the morning. “He told us: “Guys you are not in coach Dan’s plans . . . that is football and we just need to move on’. It’s life you know. Nobody has died, it’s okay. “Everywhere you go, whether you are Messi, there’s time to say move on, go out there and look to meet new people. For their (Galaxy) side, I can say it’s fair but for us as players, it’s not. “However, life goes on. I have been in football for a long time and I will move on. “So, I’ll be okay but there are some young boys. I think they still have contracts and I think the management of TS Galaxy will talk to them, hopefully, they will do so. “I just want to wish the team all the best. God has not created us to remain in one place. Life goes on. “At the moment, as I’m speaking I’m at the workshop, my garage with the guys. You know as a footballer, you are going to get disappointed and life must go on. I’m just waiting for what comes in.” — Sports Reporter/Sowetan/Goal.com