The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
SOMETIMES, we all need someone who believes in us just a little bit more. That’s what former Correctional Queens netball team utility player, Faith Matanganyidze, just needed. She is now an assistant coach and credits her boss, Christopher Simeon, for he tranasformation. “As you play, when you have coaches you are working with, they will be assessing you and identifying your abilities,’’ she said. “Simeon was my coach, so there were coaching clinics that were being done by ZINA (Zimbabwe Netball Association) and short courses, and I was interested. “My coach noticed my interest, so when these courses were held, my coach, Simeon, encouraged me to go for coaching. “I wanted to go for umpiring but he said no, you are not a natural umpire, you are a coach because you are very patient and tolerant. “I did sports administration and did coaching and umpiring elementary, coaching Level One and Level Two. “Then, I did sports medicine, sports and injury management course. I am currently doing a strengthening and conditioning course online.’’ With age catching up and the club roping in young blood, Matanganyidze retired in 2016. The following year, she assumed her new role when she joined her mentor, Simeon, in the technical department. Having won six titles with the club, as a player, they have won two championships under the Rainbow Amateur Netball League. “I feel greatly honoured to be part of the ZPCS team, I am contributing something and getting results, my experience is having an impact on the team,” Matanganyidze said. Despite netball being a female dominated sport, their male counterparts have over the years dominated when it comes to coaching. “I think male coaches dominating has been a tradition, even when we were growing, there were few females. “I think it also has to do with confidence. “Most of the male coaches think they are better than women, so, when that happens, you have to stay focused. “It takes a lot of courage because, sometimes some of the men, they don’t think we are capable.’’ Her desire is to set up an academy that will focus on junior development and creating opportunities for young girls in netball. Simeon predicts a bright future for Matanganyidze. “I (have) worked with Faith from way back, I identified her, to incorporate her into our first team called Green Buffaloes,’’ he said. “Then, from Green Buffaloes, we migrated to Nehanda. “She has been doing well, we can see her becoming one of the good coaches with time. “She has the passion for sport. . . she kept on upgrading herself after retiring.’’