The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
HARARE Division Two side New Life Academy sponsor, Benjamin Murata, said they will never give up hope in their mission to play at the highest level of the game. The team, which was formed in 2013, began their journey in the Harare Christian League where they played for two years before they joined Division Two in 2015. The club are credited with providing players like Tinashe Mupuma, who played for Shabanie, and national Under-20 trialist, Ngoni Muchemwa, who has since joined South Africa’s Stamina Academy. “We started the academy as a way of keeping young players occupied, as well as to help them stay health,’’ he said. ‘’The club was aimed to provide talent for the national team and, within the few years we have been in existence, we managed to produce good players who went on to play for established teams. “There is so much competition in Division Two, and our aim is to improve the level of competition, by assembling a very strong side. “In the years we have been active, we managed to give a good fight as we have managed to remain in the league.’’ The football-mad Murata takes care of the less privileged kids, who are talented in sport. “We are hopeful that, one day, we will return to normalcy,’’ said Murata. “At first, we took players who were vulnerable and would pay school fees for them. “At the same time, we were ministering to them but we latter realised that they can also earn a living through sport. “There are players we believe will make it in any big club, and they have been affected a lot, as they are now training on their own. “At the moment, it is very difficult to monitor everyone but, those who are in touch, say they are doing fine.’’ New Life academy made waves when they joined Division Two by engaging in high-profile pre-season friendlies with Dynamos, CAPS United and Ngezi Platinum Stars. The team, which was once under coach Maxwell Takaendesa Jongwe, are confident they will continue to play in the competitive leagues until they gain Premiership status.