The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter All-ROUNDER Sikandar Raza is getting better with every game after a fine show in the Caribbean Premier League helped Trinbago Knight Riders to their eighth win on the trot. The 34-year-old was the pick of the bowlers, with his figures of 3/18, against St Kitts and Nevis Patriots on Wednesday. Raza ran through the lower-order with his right arm spin as the Patriots could only reach 115 for 7, in their 20 overs, while chasing TKR’s 174/4. The Chevrons star has now featured in four games for the side and accumulated six wickets. He picked up two, in the last match he played, against Barbados Tridents. Prior to that he had taken one against Guyana Amazon Warriors. Trinbago Knight Riders have since booked their place in the semi-finals in this year’s tournament as they sit on top of the six-team table with 16 points. Captain Kieron Pollard rested himself, and another West Indies star Sunil Narine, from an experimental line-up that was still far too good for the St Kitts & Nevis Patriots. Raza and veteran, Pravin Tambe, were excellent with the ball and Man-of-the Match Lendl Simmons found form with his match-winning knock of 96 runs. “Incredible effort from TKRiders, winning eight out of eight games,’’ said Raza. “Such talented, and professional, human beings. “Humbled and delighted to be part of the TKR family.” TKR are looking to reclaim the title they lost last season. The side failed to defend their title last year with the Barbados Tridents claiming the honours ahead of the Guyana Amazon Warriors. Raza is part of six foreign nationals at the franchise. The others are Pakistan-born Australian leg-spinner Fawad Ahmed, the New Zealand pair of wicketkeeper Tim Seifert and Colin Munro, US fast bowler Ali Khan as well as veteran India cricketer Pravin Tambe, who is still active at 48. The 2017 and 2018 champions, have retained 11 players, who include the Bravo Brothers, Dwayne and Darren, West Indies T20 captain Kieron Pollard, Sunil Narine, Lendl Simmons, Khary Pierre, Amir Jangoo, Tion Webster, Akeal Hosein, Munro and fast bowler Khan.