The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Karate Union have split following the formation of the Zimbabwe National Karate Federation made up of non-full contact karate members. The move was necessitated by the need for semi-contact members to comply with the World Karate Federation statutes that prohibit their affiliates from mixing semi-contact and full contact karate.  According to the World Karate Federation, Article 5.15, “National Federations are prohibited from being affiliated with any other karate organisation not recognised by WKF. “They are also prohibited from having any sporting relationships with such non-recognised organisations or with any suspended WKF National Federation. “Non-compliance with this prohibition will give rise to disciplinary sanctions, illegal double affiliation would constitute just grounds for disaffiliation from WKF.” The move means semi-contact and full-contact karate will be administered by two different organisations. Former ZKU president Joe Rugwete, with a background in semi-contact will lead the new organisation. He will be deputised by Lizzie Mupure, who was the ZKU secretary-general while Tirivenyu Mutema is the secretary-general. In a statement by the newly-formed ZNKF, they have withdrawn their membership from ZKU, which will remain in charge of full contact karate. “Former non full contact karate members of the Zimbabwe Karate Union (ZKU) have formed the Zimbabwe National Karate Federation (ZNKF), which has successfully applied for registration with the Sports and Recreation Commission. “The members of the ZNKF have since withdrawn their membership from the ZKU, which is now effectively, the national sport association that controls the practice of full contact karate. “The ZNKF has been formed to ensure that the national association complies with the statutes of the World Karate Federation (WKF), which bar its members from having sporting relationships with other karate associations that are not recognised by the WKF. “This move will guarantee continued participation of Zimbabwean karatekas at the Regional Games, African Games, World Championships, and the Olympics,” reads part of the statement. Current members and affiliates of the ZNKF are Bino Ryu, Dentokan, ECKI, Goju Kai, Jindokai, Kimura Shukokai International, Okinawa Shorin Ryu Shorinkan, Sankukai Dragons, Shito Ryu Karate-do Kofukan, Jindokai Shotokan, JKA Shotokan, JSKA Shotokan, Karate Nomichi Shotokan, and Urakashi Karate Practice. Seasoned karateka Tawanda Mufundisi, who has a background in full contact and the ZKU vice president, expressed his reservations on the development but said they have to move on. “It’s the same story the ZKU is splitting, semi-contact has created another association, and they have come up with a new association that is affiliated to the World Karate Federation. “According to their statutes they say they mustn’t be involved with full contact…To us it was not a shock because we saw it coming. “And also we are not affected with that move but the thing is it means growth to full contact in general…If you look over the years this Zimbabwe Karate Union brand has been marketed mostly by full contact,” Mufundisi said. He said they will be calling for an all stakeholders meeting on how they will proceed and filling the vacant posts of president and secretary-general. SRC director legal and compliance, Peter Mudzimiri, confirmed the registration of the ZNKF. “Basically, yes, we now have Zimbabwe Karate Union and Zimbabwe National Karate Federation. “The latter was recently registered. “The difference is in the karate styles where some of the styles practiced by Karate Union are not recognised under the Word Karate Federation. “So, there was the threat of deregistration of Zimbabwe. Some clubs then resolved to align with the international federation and form the national federation,” said Mudzimiri.