The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Bloemfontein Celtic have confirmed they have lost the case against Mamelodi Sundowns over the issue of Tebogo Langerman. Celtic took Sundowns to the PSL Disciplinary Committee for naming the suspended defender in their squad for the Nedbank Cup final, which The Brazilians won 1-0 at Orlando Stadium. Former Zimbabwe international footballer, Peter Ndlovu, was targeted by some fans, amid calls for him to be axed, over the issue. Those critics claimed Ndlovu, who is the Sundowns team manager, failed to discharge his dutues by confirming Langerman wasn’t eligible for the match. However, it was later revealed that the former Warriors skipper wasn’t in charge of the team management duties for that match. The matter reached SAFA arbitration under Advocate Gcina Malindi SC yesterday, where the case was thrown out after NSL Handbook procedures for protests were not followed. Langerman did not feature in the game but Celtic’s protest came too late in the end, with the complaint needing to have been lodged 30 minutes prior to kick-off. “There are no hard feelings. We have accepted the arbitrator’s decision,” Celtic CEO Khumbulani Konco tells KickOff.com. “The arbitrator’s decision is final and we will not pursue the matter.” It is unclear whether Sundowns will still be fined for their transgression as per regulations after pleading guilty to the infringement, with a verdict expected on Monday. Nevertheless, as was suggested by a number of senior figures prior to Celtic taking the matter further, Sundowns’ incredible domestic treble was never in danger of being lost and the Yellow Nation can now continue their celebrations. Meanwhile, Kaizer Chiefs coach, Gavin Hunt, has discussed the brand of football the club’s supporters can expect now that he is at the helm. Hunt last week joined Chiefs on a three-year deal to take over from Ernst Middendorp, under whom many of the club’s supporters were displeased with the type of football being played by the team. To add insult to injury, Amakhosi lost the chance to end their trophy drought on two occasions — both in devastating fashion — in the 2019 Nedbank Cup final and the 2019/20 Absa Premiership. With the four-time league-winning tactician now ushering in a new dawn, he has given an indication of what fans can expect upon his arrival and vowed to deliver results. “My goal is to get through the first day, get on the training ground, work with the players, see where we are and what I feel we need, that’s the bottom line,” Hunt told Chiefs’ media department. “Forget about everything else, the most important thing in football is the two P’s – played and points. Let’s get that right and we can find a way that’s pleasing on the eye and enjoyable to watch, and [will make] people want to come to the stadium. “I want to play winning football. I’m a local boy, I know the history of this club, I know what’s required and I know the demand, let’s have a go.” — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com