The Herald WASHINGTON. — US president Donald Trump has dropped his biggest hint yet he could refuse to accept the result of November’s presidential election, accusing the Democrats of pulling a “scam” and arguing his new Supreme Court nominee should be in place by the election. The president is hoping to fill the Supreme Court seat left vacant by the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg earlier this month. In the event of a contested election, the Supreme Court could play a decisive role in selecting the winner, as it did in 2000 with George W Bush vs Al Gore. Speaking to reporters about his new nominee Mr Trump said: “I think it’s better if you go before the election because I think this scam the Democrats are pulling, it’s a scam, this scam will be before the United States Supreme Court.” President Trump has repeatedly insisted, without providing evidence, that his Democratic rivals are working to rig November’s presidential election using mail-in-ballots. Earlier this month he said the election would be “absolutely rigged” at “many polling stations”. Mr Trump has repeatedly refused to say he will concede if defeated in November by Democratic rival Joe Biden. A poll published in September found 75 percent of Mr Biden’s voters worry Mr Trump will refuse to concede if defeated. However, vice-president Mike Pence has insisted the president will “absolutely” accept the election result if defeated. Democrats are furious Mr Trump is seeking to fill the vacant Supreme Court seat before November’s election, pointing to Republicans refusal to approve Merrick Garland, Barack Obama’s 2016 pick, ahead of that year’s presidential election. In the event of a disputed election the Supreme Court could be decisive in selecting the winner. During the contested 2000 election it settled the dispute between Mr Bush and Mr Gore by halting a Florida recount and handing victory to Mr Bush. Mr Gore accepted this decision and conceded but there are fears the process won’t be so straightforward this time around. — Express.