The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool have confirmed Thiago Alcantara has tested positive for coronavirus and is isolating. The 29-year-old was absent for Liverpool’s 3-1 victory over Arsenal on Monday night and Jurgen Klopp was coy over the problem that kept him out, only saying that he’ll be back after the international break. The club have now announced that he has Covid-19 and has been displaying minor symptoms. Liverpool first-team doctor, Jim Moxon, said: ‘It is the choice of each individual whether they reveal publicly the outcome of a Covid-19 test. “We have followed all the protocols to the letter and Thiago is OK. He will be self-isolating now as per the guidelines and hopefully he’ll be back with us soon.’ The north-west of England, particularly the city of Liverpool, has seen numbers of Covid-19 cases rapidly rising in recent weeks. According to Liverpool City Council, there are currently 1323 cases-per-week diagnosed in the city, compared to 94-per-week on September 1. Thiago missed his team’s victory where Arsenal midfielder, Granit Xhaka, was left infuriated by his team’s approach. The Swiss international is said to have loudly berated his team-mates during the celebrations after Alexandre Lacazette opened the scoring at Anfield in the first half. BeIN Sports reported during the interval that Xhaka was heard screaming ‘we are scared’, and appeared visibly irked over the team’s willingness to allow the champions too much space. Xhaka was fielded next to Mohamed Elneny on Monday evening for the mouth-watering encounter, but the Arsenal duo struggled to take control in midfield. It was the hosts who dominated possession for large spells, forcing both players to hustle and harry, and Xhaka was seen reportedly in disagreement with the more passive nature of those around him. At the end of the match, it was a post-match interview that should have featured a delighted Jurgen Klopp, but instead it turned into a tense exchange on live television. Liverpool had just despatched Arsenal in which they had 66% possession and 21 shots on goal compared to four from the Gunners. Klopp appeared in front of the Sky Sports cameras and laughed as Jamie Carragher gave his verdict, but his face soon dropped when he caught the word “sloppy” from ex-Manchester United skipper Roy Keane. Asked about the match, an incredulous Klopp began by asking: “Did I hear right, Mr Keane said we had a sloppy performance tonight? Did he say that?” With Carragher sniggering in his seat, presenter David Jones handed the floor to Keane. “I think they gave up one or two opportunities which he will be disappointed with,” responded Keane. Klopp wasn’t backing down. “Did he say that it was sloppy? I want to hear it. I am not sure I heard it right and maybe he was speaking about another game. “It cannot be this game. Sorry, that is an incredible description of this game.” The German went on: “That was absolutely exceptional. Nothing, absolutely nothing was sloppy. Dominant against a team 100% in form and be careful as hell that we did not get caught on the counter-attack. — Mailonline/BBC Sport.