The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Aquatic Union are likely to get a clear picture on how they will proceed with their plans for the upcoming swimming season in the next few days as they are expecting to get response for their application from the Sports Commission this week. Usually the swimming season gets underway in September but there has been uncertainty due to the Covid-19 pandemic and has had ripple effects, also affecting clubs in terms of accessing facilities for training. Zimbabwe swimming chairperson Tracey Doorman said indications are that they should get some feedback from the Sports Commission this week. “Training has begun and competition calendars are set dependent on permission for competition. We submitted our proposals a few weeks ago and follow ups indicate that we should have a response this coming week,” said Doorman. Although she is hopeful they can get their competition underway this month, availability of venues is also a factor to be considered. For Harare, Les Brown Swimming Pool usually hosts most national and provincial events and has been undergoing some repairs. When asked if its still possible to start the season this month, Doorman said: “I do (think its feasible to get the season underway), dependent on venues readiness bearing in mind that the 50m pools are council facilities and some need some major work especially Les Brown, which Harare (Amateur) Swimming are working on.  We aim to start competition as soon as possible,” said Doorman. Some of the clubs use schools facilities for training and it has been difficult since they are closed. “There are a few clubs who don’t have access to facilities outside of schools. Most in Harare and Bulawayo have managed to make alternative arrangements. “We have written to the Sports Commission and asked them through our Ministry (of Sport) to engage with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education to see if those needing to use school pools would be allowed.  We await feedback,” Doorman said. Sharks swimming club coach Kathy Lobb noted that access to pools has been a challenge as well as swimmers balancing school commitments as most of them try to make up for the lost time. “To be honest we are battling to train our swimmers. Luckily at the beginning of the lockdown we were just at the start of our off-season because of winter and not all clubs were active. Those who were swimming battled to fit in training around school timetables and pools availability. “August is when most clubs usually get in the water but there were very few pools available even then. . . This has continued in September where all municipal pools are either closed or have no water and schools that are reopening next week have to remain closed to outsiders as per a Ministry of Education directive. “This leaves three private pools in Harare, one only 5 lanes, available at a significant additional cost. With school commitments, numbers per lane and time restrictions — 1.30pm-4.30pm — it means over half the swimmers are unable to train right now,” said Lobb. However, from the adjusted programme they have had so far, Lobb said it has been encouraging but she admitted that most of her swimmers are not ready for the season. “Our club has done a lot of dry land training and swimming where and when we could squeeze in the last few months. “The swimmers have really enjoyed getting out of home, exercising and talking to their friends,” said Lobb. Highlands coach Michael Ranken said despite the drawbacks, they are ready for the season. “What we did is we followed the calendar for the swimming season. We were lucky we were allowed back in the water in June, so we did our practice for it, our swimmers are ready, we are just waiting for the season to start. “Most of the clubs have got challenges, you know us as Zimbabweans we rely mainly on schools facilities, which were out of bounds, council facilities which were out of bounds and that has played a major effect on our training hours. “So it’s all about improvising the hours for your swimmers,” said Ranken.