The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter THE case in which businessman Farai Jere is facing charges of defrauding Zesa of US$3 566 878 in a botched smart meters and accessories supply deal was yesterday postponed to November 2 by Harare regional magistrate Mr Trynois Utahwashe. Jere, who is out of custody on $20 000 bail, appeared in court yesterday jointly charged with ZETDC engineers, Leonard Chisina and Freeman Kuziva. Allegations against the trio are that sometime in 2016 Jere won a tender to supply 1 151 smart meters to ZETDC for US$3 566 878. According to the State, key elements of the contract required that the factory acceptance test (FAT) be done at the factory where they are manufactured and that Helcraw Electrical was also to cater for flights, food and accommodation for the delegation. The court heard that the type tests were also to be done and that meter specifications were 5amps base current and 120amps maximum current and head end system was to be a two-way wireless system. It is alleged that Jere misrepresented to ZETDC that Secure Meters Pvt Ltd had a manufacturing plant for smart meters and had a head end system in the United Kingdom, yet there was none. On November 24, 2018 three engineers Mapipi, Tshuma and Chisina all from ZETDC and Freeman Chikonzo went with Jere to the UK to carry out the tests. While in the UK, Jere took the engineers to a warehouse with smart meters and not a factory, it is alleged. According to the said contract the FAT was to be done at the factory where they are manufactured, and as a result the required standards were not met. Further accusations are that on the meters specifications, the meters the engineers tested had a base of 10 amps and maximum current of 120 amps. It is claimed that the meters were connected to a laptop and again the tests on the head end system failed. Jere allegedly produced a fake FAT report to the effect that the meters met the required standards by ZETDC and he asked the four engineers to sign the false FAT report. Engineers Chisina and Chikonzo signed the false FAT report while engineers Mapipi and Tshuma expressed reservations as no test had been done, a court heard. It is alleged that he asked Chisina to talk to the two other engineers and fumed that he could not fund a trip to the United Kingdom only for them to refuse to sign and the reportedly signed under duress. Prosecutor George Manokore alleges that Jere then made a shipment of 1 151 smart meters, which were delivered to ZETDC and they paid US $3 566 878.02. Claims are that upon return to the country engineers Mapipi and Tshuma were removed from the project by Chisina. ZETDC management allegedly requested all the engineers to complete a questionnaire on the test visit and Chisina and Chikonzo allegedly indicated that the test met the standards required while the other two indicated that there was no factory, but a warehouse, contrary to the contract. In January this year, ZETDC ordered an investigation and it was discovered that no FAT was done and resolved to remove all the meters supplied by Jere from their system resulting in the loss of US$3 566 878.02.