The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
AS the global coronavirus pandemic begins to have a direct impact on livelihoods, local footballers could be victims of the delayed start of the season. Major leagues across the world are feeling the pinch as clubs are cutting player salaries. Barcelona and Bayern Munich have led the way and many clubs are also following suit. In South Africa, the Government have set up a fund to cover losses of income by professional sportspeople and artistes. In Zimbabwe, although the issue hasn’t manifested yet since clubs were on pre-season and about to start the new season at the end of last month, the issue of remuneration is likely to leave clubs ina worse-off position. A few clubs, the likes of Ngezi Platinum and FC Platinum who have always enjoyed financial stability, are likely to be in a better position to deal with the challenges. However, most of the clubs, including the traditional giants like Dynamos, Highlanders and CAPS United, will have to bear the brunt of the effects brought by COVID-19. What complicates the local situation is the funding model of most clubs, which rely on a single benefactor, or a group of individuals pooling resources, to run the clubs. Due to the sensitivity of the issue, a number of club officials were not willing to be named but told this publication that “it’s not looking good” for most of the clubs. “We have always been struggling as clubs, even before this virus, so this will further complicate the situation. “European clubs are cutting salaries, chances are we are going to do the same but my question is cutting to how much because, already, the amount is not enough. “Already, the salaries are not enough and cutting may complicate things and cause alarm and despondency among the players. “The majority of sectors, in this economy, are struggling,’’ said one of the officials. Another club official added that some clubs might be relegated even before the season has started. “We are in a quagmire right now that will cripple the league and some teams will limp for the better part of the season. “We are so devastated emotionally, and financially, and some teams are likely not to recover from this catastrophic experience. “This situation needs moral support from the powers that be in football, like FIFA, so that the game retains the image, and reputation, which was built over the years. “It’s quite terrible that clubs owned by individuals will be left crippled and some even collapsing. “From my analysis, we are likely to see teams being relegated before the season even started,” he said.