The Herald ANDY FLOWER, who celebrated his 52nd birthday yesterday, says his best cricket memory in the colours of his country will always be the moment the Chevrons won their first Test in Pakistan in 1995. The global cricket family yesterday took time to congratulate the former Zimbabwe captain who has also transformed himself into a leading coach in the game having taken charge of England. This year marks 25 years after that achievement. “A team’s first win will always be fondly cherished by fans, but the dominant manner in which Zimbabwe beat Pakistan in 1995 would have made it a memorable one regardless,’’ noted the news18.com website. “Zimbabwe’s early performances in Test cricket were nothing to write home about, leading to some talk about whether ICC had granted them Test status in haste. “Nevertheless, they showed what they were capable of in the first match of a three-Test series against Pakistan. “Winning the toss and choosing to bat first, Zimbabwe rode on a double century from Grant Flower (201*) and tons from Guy Whittall (113*) and Andy Flower (156) to post a mammoth total of 544/4d. “In reply, Pakistan could only muster 322 and Zimbabwe duly enforced the follow-on. The visitors fared even worse in the second innings and were bundled for 158, handing Zimbabwe their maiden Test win.’’ Flower, in conversation with former teammate, Pommy Mbangwa, who is now a SuperSport commentator and pundit, said he will always treasure that maiden win over Pakistan. The video of their conversation was posted on the ICC official Twitter site yesterday as part of Flower’s 52nd birthday celebrations. “My strongest Zimbabwe cricket moment is winning our first Test match, and the importance of that, against Pakistan in 1995,’’ said Flower. “Just getting that monkey off our back early, compared to other nations (like) Sri Lanka and New Zealand, doing that in our third year of international cricket.’’ On a special day for the game, the world also remembered legendary West Indies skipper, Clive Lloyd’s achievements, on this day in 1984, when he became the first player from the West Indies to play 100 Tests. Lloyd retired a year later with 110 Tests and 7 515 runs to his name. Yesterday was also the day, in 2007, when Australia completed a hat-trick of World Cup wins when Ricky Ponting’s side beat Sri Lanka in the final by 53 runs on DLS method. Adam Gilchrist was the player of the match with his 104-ball 149. Flower, who once rocketed to number one on the batting rankings in the world, is considered the finest cricketer to come out of this country. “One of the greatest cricketers to have come out of Zimbabwe, Andy Flower celebrates his 52nd birthday on this day (yesterday),’’ reported the website news.fresherlive.com. “Flower was born on 28 April 1968 in Cape Town in South Africa. He played 63 Tests and 213 ODIs for Zimbabwe. He scored 11 580 runs of which 4 794 in Tests and 6 786 in                                                                                                ODIs. “He hit 12 centuries in Tests and four in ODI cricket during his 11-year career. He also affects 333 dismissals as the team’s wicketkeeper. “Flower has immensely contributed to the Zimbabwe cricket team. He was their best player during their most fruitful phase in the sport. He retired in 2003. After his retirement, he started to coach and continued his contribution to cricket.’’ The authoritative Cricinfo website asked their readers to name their favourite Flower Power innings and this is what they came up with: Sams Vicky “His 145 against India in CT 2002, the main bowlers were tired and an exhausted Ganguly decided to give the ball to Tendulkar to get his wicket, remember Zimbabwe was very strong team until WC (World Cup) 2003.’’ Asaduzzaman Khan “One of the finest wicket-keeper batsmen of his generation, his ability against spin was awesome. One of my childhood heroes.’’ Venkatasubramania KV “Andy Flower is a champion batsman, adept at playing spin and pace bowling with equal ease. He used reverse sweep very effectively against India in India. Would’ve been an automatic batsman in any XI in his time.’’ Mohammad Jaffar “Andy Flower is a Zimbabwean (who) carried his country with dignity, he played well he fought all the way, his best innings was in a one-day game in Australia.’’ Neeraj Wadekar “This man was born to perform against India . . . Happy birthday legend and greatest sweeper of the ball.’’ Tariq Wasim “He was one of the best cricketers in that era of golden cricketers, #RespectFromPakistan.’’ Aarzoo Sharma “Zimbabwe in his era was a force to reckon with. Ably led by Heath Streak, players like Grant Flower, Neil Johnson, Campbell, Ray Price, Douglas Marillier, etc, had made Zimbabwe a team to beat.’’ Rahul Tiwari “He played in India on turning track, he swept, reverse swept, reverse swept and finally proved to be the best, later he mentored Cook to repeat same feat. Hayden was other guy who demolished Indian bowling attack in India.’’ Hashim Rahman “World class player with 52 batting average in Test.’’ Chaudhary Mosuab Shabbir “32 not out vs India . . . 199 & 142 in a Test against South Africa. 150+ against Pakistan. There are more.’’ — Sports Reporter/Cricinfo, www.news18.com