The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter TAWANDA Nemutambwe was on the verge of completing a dream move into the French top-flight basketball league when he was involved in a horrific accident five years ago. There was no doubting the small guard’s prowess, a man who once shared the court with Zimbabwe’s best export Vitalis Chikoko back in their days at Prince Edward School in Harare. Two years after helping rank outsiders Mbare Heat, in a season he won the Most Valuable Player’s accolade, his stars appeared to have been smiling on him. “I had spent years playing in the top-tier basketball league in Zimbabwe. Several times, I had represented my country and a move to France was on its way. ‘’I prayed everyday and I was closer to a dream move but somehow it wasn’t written in the stars,” said Nemutambwe. A traffic accident before his scheduled departure to France left the then 23-year-old with sprains all over his body.  His injured knee would require a delicate procedure before he could go back to the court. “The operation procedure was not done properly and it had to be re-done completely,’’ he said. “The knee has been operated on thrice and I am due to go under the knife yet again on the same knee later this year. “I started falling in love with hoops when I was only five-years-old in Mabvuku. My brother inspired me into trying my hand in the sport. “I started playing league basketball when I was in high school for Stanbic Marvericks, I then moved to Varsity Leopards before moving to Mbare Heat.  “But, when the accident happened and the operation went wrong, I knew that was the end of it all.” Nemutambwe tried in vain to revive his playing career until he thought of branching into coaching.  “I tried to come back onto the court but I just couldn’t. The knee was painful. The thought of leaving the game I loved so dearly hurt me but my time on the court was definitely up. “But, I just couldn’t let the injury divorce me from basketball. Of course, I had not reached the pinnacle of my playing career but, I just thought I should venture into coaching. “That’s how I started my coaching journey. To me, the life-threatening crash didn’t spell the end of my dream but actually the beginning.” Nemutambwe, who holds Sports Management and Sports Science diplomas in addition to an International Basketball Federation (FIBA) Level Two coaching certificate, is flying high as the head coach of Harare Basketball Association league side Harare City Hornets. The former national team player has guided City Hornets men’s side to the HBA title in the past two consecutive seasons. The municipal side are yet to lose a match this season which has been frozen due to the coronavirus outbreak. They need only one win to retain the title. “I have always wanted to see things around me getting better and now I’m in a better position for this since I’ve started coaching City Hornets. ‘’The record is incredible. ‘’Of course, this wouldn’t have been the case without the support of the executive and players. ‘’Hopefully, the COVID-19 pandemic will pass and we will do what we have done all these years. But, for now people, should adhere to precautionary measures recommended by the authorities.”