The Herald LOS ANGELES. — Jennifer Lopez says her wedding day to fiancé Alex Rodriguez has been “affected” by coronavirus lockdown and the couple doesn’t have a date . They were set to tie the knot this year. And Jennifer Lopez has revealed that the couple’s wedding day has been affected by the coronavirus pandemic, during an appearance on the at-home edition of The Ellen DeGeneres Show. The Hustlers star (50) admitted that they don’t have a date set for their special day due to the global uncertainty regarding the pandemic. During their chat, Ellen asked if the wedding date had been affected by the quarantine and implied that their wedding could’ve happened “any day now”. Jennifer giggled and said: “Any day now? Actually, it did affect it a little bit, so we will see what happens now. Honestly, I really don’t know what’s going to happen now, as far as dates or anything like that. “We’re just kind of in a holding pattern like the rest of the world. It’s something that we’ll have to wait and see in a few months, how this all pan out.” Ellen also had a glimpse into how JLo and Alex are fairing as teachers as they homeschool their children; Alex has two daughters from a past relationship Natasha (15) and Ella (11), while Jennifer is mum to twins Emme and Maximilian, both 12. In the short clip teasing the interview, Ellen begins by asking who’s homeschooling the four children and who’s helping with the homework. “I help with the homework,” the mother-of-two confessed during the interview that was recorded outside her home in Miami. She then revealed that all four kids are doing virtual school right now. “And so I stay more on top of Emme and Max about that,” she clarified about her son and daughter with ex-husband and singer Mark Anthony, before she jokingly added, “Yeah me.” The host, who conducted the interview from inside her home in Los Angeles, also asked whether she found it easy to home school. “Honestly, I think we’re all looking at it like, what is this?” she confessed with a bewildered look on her face and her hands on the sides of her head. “Like I’m a teacher!” She then laid out the common scenario of recent weeks: where she’s not quite sure how to help her kids. “And so, you know, half the time I’m like, ok, yeah. Let’s look up that word. What does that mean,” she added with some playful laughs. “It’s been an experience, for sure.” — Dailymail.co.uk