The Herald Municipal Correspondent
The cash-strapped Chitungwiza Municipality lost thousands of dollars over the past decade as top executives allegedly overpaid themselves and in some instances getting double salaries. Ghost workers also appeared on payroll, milking the municipality of thousands of dollars, an investigation has revealed. The town was also been prejudiced of potential revenue as some tenants were corruptly allocated council properties and operated free of charge for years as they had no leases and do not appear in council records. It has since emerged that the local authority has no title deeds for most of its properties including its Housing and Community section head office and St Mary’s administration offices. The Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) and the Police Serious Fraud section have since been approached by residents over gross maladministration at town house. The cases are filed under RRB 000106 (ZACC) and CR number 3/01/20) as well as CR number 303/4/14. Official documents gleaned by The Herald show that in January 2013, assistant finance director Ezekiel Chifamba’s payslip indicated he was supposed to be paid $1 739 but $2 634 was deposited into his bank account. That same month, suspended town clerk Dr George Makunde’s payslip indicated that he got $4 084, 25 yet $10 000 was deposited to his bank account. In January 2012 an internal audit found out that top managers were overpaying themselves and were not supposed to be paid for the month of January 2013. While their payslips indicated compliance, different amounts of money in salaries ranging from $12 000 to $33 000 were deposited for the same month. IT manager, Mr John Mapani and assistant finance director, Mr Titus Mudzindi had payslips showing $0,00 as net pay but their respective accounts benefited from a transfer of $13 000 and $15 000 respectively. A sheet with account numbers for managers indicated that out of the top 18 employees at Chitungwiza, only five were receiving salary in hard cash but some funds transferred into their bank accounts as salaries. The cash beneficiaries were Dr Makunde, chamber secretary Ms Priscilla Vengesai, finance director Evangelista Machona, health director Ms Gloria Gonese and suspended human resources manager Ms Mary Rashamira. However, some of the top executives by virtue of their grades were deprived of the hard cash privilege as their salaries were deposited into bank accounts. On issue of ghost workers, council’s cost analysis report of January 2013 shows that there were 18 managers being paid by council but two years later, the company analysis report reported the same figure although two managers had already left in 2013. This saw council paying non-existent workers. On lease agreements, an audit committee of January 2019 noted that there were organisations occupying Makoni Welfare Centre without lease agreements including Vocational Training Centre, Social Services and Determination Book Binders as well as Eagle Insurance. A Udcorp Audit report shows that council does not have title deeds for most of its immovable properties including the Housing and Community Section head office, Seke North administration offices, Unit L Hall, Zengeza 2 library, St Mary’s admin bloc, Unit J shops, Zengeza Clinic, engineering reception and administration workshop, Kenneth Hall and Zengeza 2 market.