The Herald LONDON. — The English Premier League are to announce the football season is over, according to the director of an Italian club owned by Watford. Udinese’s Pierpaolo Marino made the claim after the Belgium league announced an end to the season and declared Club Brugge as champions. UEFA warned such action could affect entry into European competitions next season. The English Premier League have given no date for a re-start of matches with Liverpool 25 points clear at the top. But Marino told Sportitalia: “The Belgian Federation has already sanctioned the end of their league, despite the threats of sanctions from UEFA. “In England, the Premier League is about to release a similar statement, because the situation there is becoming very, very serious. I frankly just hope we can enjoy football again after the coronavirus. “It doesn’t matter how long it takes, we need to get out of this danger zone. “I am worried for the next seasons, not the old one.” Watford and Udinese are both owned by the Pozzo family. The Hornets were in 17th place when the English Premier League was suspended last month and only out of the bottom three on goal difference. Meanwhile, this week the streets of Bergamo should be buzzing with excitement as Atalanta prepare for the biggest game in the club’s history — a Champions League quarter-final. Instead, they are silent but for the sound of ambulance sirens and church bells ringing for the latest victims of the coronavirus pandemic. It is six weeks since the city rejoiced at their side’s 4-1 Champions League first-leg win over Valencia, and Bergamo has been at the centre of the global pandemic. Sadly, it’s now thought that game contributed to the Italian outbreak. Atalanta also won the second leg — behind closed doors — to reach the quarter-finals in their first Champions League season, although they never found out who their next opponents would be, with most European football suspended before the draw was made. Despite being a provincial team with no big names and operating with a modest budget, they have become arguably Europe’s most exciting side to watch. But, like the team itself, Atalanta’s fans are now using their collective strength to help Bergamo find a way through the crisis. How did Atalanta get there? While Bergamo lies in the shadow of the Alps, Atalanta have spent much of their existence in the shadows of AC and Inter Milan. La Dea, as they are also known, have only won one major trophy and their best Serie A finish was sixth — until Gian Piero Gasperini took charge in 2016. — The Mirror.