The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter THE CAPS United leaders are taking advantage of the window brought about by the suspension of the 2020 Premiership football season to evaluate several policies, including their commercial revolution. This comes amid reports Highlanders received just $383 as part of their share from the PSL broadcasting deal with ZBC for last year. The league went into partnership with the national broadcaster after severing their marriage with SuperSport amid concerns, from the clubs, that they were not getting what they expected from the deal. Bosso official confirmed yesterday that they received that amount as their share from the broadcasting deal. Given that background of reduced earnings, CAPS United have embarked on a different path to become a commercial entity. The Green Machine want to transform themselves into a vehicle that can make money for the shareholders and also provide good financial benefits for the players. Club vice-president, Nhamo Tutisani, said there were a lot of issues which need to be looked at before the season is eventually allowed to proceed. “As the CAPS United administration we are using this window to evaluate our policies,’’ he said. “There are several issues which we have formulated, as a club, which needs systematic implementation. “So, during this period, while the technical team will be working on improving the team on the field of play, using ways available, including individualised models, the administration is taking this as an opportunity to review our policies as a team.” Tutisani said the commercial thrust his team was adopting needed scrutiny. “We are moving towards commercialising the way we are running the club. That means a lot to us. There are several ways in which we will try to achieve that. “So, we have been working on deadlines and we have made tremendous strides. “However, this window has also afforded us a chance to analyse our policies. It has afforded us a chance to see where we can improve in terms of administration.” The Harare businessman revealed that CAPS United will also take the opportunity to closely look on what sponsors have put on the table. He didn’t specify whether the team have managed to lure more sponsors other than their principal financial backers, NetOne. “We are looking at several avenues which we can pursue for the improvement of our operating environment. ‘’We are looking at such things like how to bring more spectators to the stadiums, issues like sponsorship and advertising. “So, basically, this is what we are looking at during this window. I would like to take this opportunity to urge our players and fans to adhere to the national lockdown directive which is underway. ‘’The health of the players, and indeed everyone, is what that matters most before anything else.”