The Herald Tadious Manyepo and Collin Matiza ONE of the traditional football giants of the domestic game, Zimbabwe Saints, are eyeing a return to the top-flight. They recently joined the ZIFA Southern Region Division One league. Some benefactors bailed out the club who then met the criteria set by the ZIFA Southern Region Division One and were readmitted back a few weeks ago. They have since affiliated with the league. Southern Region Division One chairman, Andrew Tapela, confirmed Saints were back. “Zimbabwe Saints are now part and parcel of our league after they became one of the teams which met our invitation criteria,” Tapela said. “As a league, we set down and decided to have an 18-team league. We had 16 teams last year but finished the season with 15. “So, we resolved that we needed to have clubs in our league who meet a criteria which we settled for. “Zimbabwe Saints are one of the teams to have successfully met the conditions. “I can also confirm that Zimbabwe Saints are one of the teams who have since paid their affiliation fees. “So, they are ready to play in the league when the season, whose kick-off was delayed due to the coronavirus outbreak, gets underway.’’ The Bulawayo team’s board member, Columbus Makumbe, said Saints have secured sound sponsorship. “One of our most senior board members, Vincent Pamire, who, unfortunately recently lost his son, has been behind the resurrection of Zimbabwe Saints,’’ said Makumbe. ‘’That is why the club has found its way into the Southern Region Division One but the main aim is to bounce back into the Premier Soccer League in the not-too-distant-future. “I’m made to understand that a number of the clubs board members and supporters alike are currently mobilising resources that will see the team campaign successfully in the Southern Region Division One this year and, hopefully, if there are no major hiccups along the way, the team will soon find its way back into the Premier Soccer League. “It’s all in order and I think we are moving in the right direction.’’ Makumbe, a Norton-based businessman, has of late been involved in running ZIFA Northern Region Division One side Chegutu Pirates, but he said Zimbabwe Saints still have a special place in his heart. Godfrey “GP” Paradza, one of Zimbabwe Saints’ living legends, also confirmed yesterday that the club was now “solidly” back on its feet. “We recently had a meeting with other Zimbabwe Saints legends, who included Gibson Homela, where they approached me to become the club’s coach but we all agreed that we should first advertise for the job and see which other prominent people or coaches are willing to coach the team. “So, basically, I can say the team is more than ready to play in the Southern Region Division One and hopefully we won’t stay there for a long time as we would like to find our way back into the Premier Soccer League,” Paradza said.