The Herald Noel Munzabwa Sports Correspondent
FORMER Warriors striker Cuthbert Malajila has, for the first time, relived moments Mamelodi Sundowns ‘‘robbed’’ Orlando Pirates at sea to land his signature in 2003. That led to seven successful seasons at the Brazilians. ‘‘‘It was almost set for me to leave for Orlando Pirates, with the two having agreed terms, only for Mamelodi Sundowns to sneak in a better offer at the 11th hour,’’  said Malajila. ‘‘And, off I was to Pretoria and looking at what I won one will not look back and regret. The stay at Sundowns gave me the fame, and success, adding colour to my career.’’ In an interview from his lockdown cabin, narrating his journey from Kadoma’s David Whitehead to University of Zimbabwe then to Chapungu, Malajila mentioned the Buccaneers and CAPS United as some of his suitors. Seven years later, despite two serious injuries, Malajila does not regret anything. He won five ABSA Premiership league medals, including one at Bidvest Wits while on loan, and several Nedbank, MTN 8 and Telkom Cups medals. ‘‘I must say this issue of counter offers was not new to me, first it was Highlanders outbidding Dynamos for the 2008 loan,’’ he said. ‘‘That was before the Harare giants turned the tables the following year.’’ ‘‘Then, in 2010, having attended trials at Maritzburg who had almost agreed a deal with Chapungu, Dynamos traveled to Tunisia to play Esperance.’’ Little did he know that Club Africain were watching the match, approached him and Dynamos officials who referred further them to Chapungu. The Tunisians sealed a US$100 000 deal but the auction drama did not end there. “After getting wind that Club Africain had signed, Maritzburg made a futile offer to refund them the money and this continued throughout my stay there,’’ he said. ‘‘They made their third attempt just before I was loaned out to Libya side Al Akhdar.’’ Two months into a six-month loan, the Libyans prepared a bid for an outright permanent move. But, just when negotiations begun, the North Africa nation was thrown into turmoil after a civil war erupted. This left Malajila in danger and he fled Libya. “Back in Zimbabwe, Chapungu, as my original parent club, had to negotiate for my reverse release before loaning me back to Dynamos.  ‘‘CAPS United were waiting on the wings, ready pounce and an impromptu crowd-funding ensured my stay.’’ Malajila was to become a darling of the fans, who coined the nickname Gaddafi, before Maritzburg successfully knocked at the doors for the fourth time. He had rejected a potential move to DRC’s FC Lupopo in a deal that would have seen him partner his former teammate Phillip Marufu in Lubumbashi. “Such was my football life in which I had to endure lot of decision-splitting moments from its infancy. ‘’There was time when I briefly located from Kadoma to play for University of Zimbabwe and God would take us through all this to build a character in a person,” he said. After quitting Black Leopards in January, the 2009 Cosafa Senior Men Challenge Golden Boot winner has been confined to personal training.