The Herald Herald Reporters
COMPLIANCE levels on day two of the 21-day lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19 were high yesterday, with minimal movement in most parts of the country. In Harare, the Zimbabwe Republic Police and the Harare municipal police mounted roadblocks on several roads leading into the Central Business District where people were being asked to produce letters showing that they were providing essential services. Supermarkets were open, but closed in the afternoon in line with the Government directive. Fuel was available at most service stations in Harare, with no queues especially in the city centre. Police did rounds in the city centre and used a public address system to urge the few people who were loitering to go home. Zupco buses were ferrying passengers who produced evidence of providing essential services. The evidence should be in the form of a letter from the employer or prescription from the doctor. In Mutare, human and traffic was low, with few people buying basic commodities in supermarkets. Police maintained presence in the city centre and encouraged people to stay at home using a public address system. The city became deserted as supermarkets closed at 3pm, while all bus terminuses, vegetable and flea markets remained closed. Minister of State for Manicaland Provincial Affairs and provincial Covid-19 taskforce chairperson Dr Ellen Gwaradzimba said police officers will ensure that people with no business in the city centre remain outside. She said Forbes and Espungabeira border posts remain closed and security had been tightened along the borderline. In Kariba, there were low numbers of people on the streets, with few shoppers lining up to buy bread. A team from Kariba Municipality was carrying out an awareness campaign on the dangers of Covid-19 and on the importance of staying at home during the 21-day lockdown period. In Beitbridge, market places remained closed, while major retail shops and pharmacies, filling stations and a few freight forwarding offices were open. The few people that left their homes were buying food items, especially mealie meal, beef, cooking oil, toiletries and medication. Grain shipments continued trickling in from South Africa via Beitbridge Border Post yesterday. Additionally, there is a high police visibility at all strategic points across the border town.