The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Hello and welcome to another week.
The Covid-19 pandemic is real and we need to keep on taking care of ourselves. Maintaining social distance, washing hands with clean running water for 20 seconds using soap and for those moving around, always carry a sanitiser in your pocket or handbag. Weeks ago, I wrote about how to wear your mask correctly and taking care of your clothes and sweet-self during this time of Covid-19. Many women concurred with me that one needs to practice self hygiene by washing clothes and cleaning jewellery as soon as you arrive home, with most men complaining that the level of cleanliness was absurd. Ladies and gentlemen, prevention is always better than cure. Again some said surgical masks were only for doctors in clinics and surgeries, while others begged to differ. Cases of Covid-19 infection have sky-rocketed with many people in Europe and America scrambling to get their hands on surgical masks to protect themselves. In Zimbabwe, people are also scrambling for masks and sanitisers. Science enthusiast and writer Kelly Servick observed that health officials jumped in to discourage them, worried about the limited supply of masks for health care personnel. “Seriously people STOP BUYING MASKS!” began a 29 February tweet from US surgeon Jerome Adams. “The World Health Organisation and US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have both said only people with Covid-19 symptoms and those caring for them should wear masks,” she said. Enough of that. A lot has been happening since most people are at home during the 21-day lockdown prescribed by Government as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of coronavirus. Then there is the “Don’t Rush Challenge”, which took the social media by storm these past weeks. In fact, it swept across the world and it is now competing with another trend – the pillow challenge. Fashion designers, lawyers, media personalities, bankers, doctors even beauty bloggers and all kinds of everyday women are finding joy in this nod to get glammed up. Some African influencers decided to do the “Don’t Rush Challenge” where they quickly switched from their indoor clothes to stunning outfits with magnificent face-beats. ‘Don’t Rush’ was released by Young T and Bugsey last year and most people had it playing in the background when recording their videos. So many countries followed the beat trend including Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Kenya and Zimbabwe. Some of the personalities took part during the challenge include MisRed, Lorraine Taylor, Mikey Chindiya, Maxine Adams and even the gents followed too led by male models for example BenChest, Anesu Mhembere and Mudiwahood, among others. And it started on the TikTok application. At least people now have something to wind their time with. So one of my friends Takudzwa Chihambakwe said he was troubled about whether it was a good idea to repeat wearing a pair of jeans before washing them. I said YES! Each of us has held worn clothing in our hands and wondered if we should wear it one more time or put it in the washing machine. Okay, like BrightSideMe once said: “Not everyone knows all the rules for washing.” Do you need to wash some clothing inside out, because it absorbs bodily fluids which are primarily inside? And sometimes our stuff is much dirtier than it looks. My mother would say that I must not repeat wearing the same clothes before washing them but as an expert in fashion, I told her the rule of washing jeans is: you could wear them three times a month without washing them and she was flabbergasted. My friends insisted too that washing often could ruin your jeans and make them lose their colour. So the debate still continues. . . So how often should you wash them? According to BriteSideMe, it turns out I was correct after all including my friends and mother. “The truth of how often you should wash your jeans lies somewhere between “after every wear” and “never.” Usually, five wears is enough to give you an excuse to throw your jeans into the washer,” said the site. This can be for a number of reasons, but usually it’s because repeated wear can stretch them out, making them fit too loosely. Additionally, sometimes you can sweat so much that they can begin to smell. Make sure you wash them in cold water so that they can better retain their original colour! Denim guide also shared their three pointers that: The choice is yours. . . enjoy the weekend and don’t forget to stay at home.