The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter SIX years ago, it looked unlikely any team would prop from nowhere to disrupt the order, not only in the Harare Basketball League, but also on the national front. Cameo, Foxes, Raiderz, Vixens and JBC were the dominant sides. But things haven’t been the same since the return of Harare City Hornets men, five years ago, into the top-flight league. Their women’s side also returned two years later. The two sides have dominated the HBA, thanks to the administrative hand of chairman Sunny Mbofana. Yet, he couldn’t have been at the apex of the Harare Hornets club had he decided to stay in football. Mbofana was the secretary-general of Harare City Football Club when the team won the ticket to the Premier Soccer League back in 2012. Normally, he should have elected to stay put, given the relative success of the team but he decided to renew his love with basketball, a sport he played back in the 1990s. “I started playing basketball around 1990, as a pastime, and started taking it seriously under the tutelage of Takawira Mubako who played for Varsity Leopards during his time and now stays in the USA. “I played as one of the pioneer players for Hornets in the then Mashonaland Basketball Association (MBA) under the stewardship of Admire Masenda. “I then rose to become Harare City Hornets’ secretary-general later in the years and managed to recruit one big coach in Collin West from Sixers. “I left the game around 1996 and took a long sabbatical away from the sport.” But, after helping the football side into the Premiership, Mbofana sought to use his experience to resuscitate Hornets. Mbofana did everything by the textbook until the men’s team found their way back to the HBA five years ago and, inspired by its success, he also made sure the women’s side joined in. The women’s side have won the league in both seasons they have been in the top-flight and are showing no signs of fizzling out just as yet. The Andrew Chitauro-coached side top the table after winning all their 14 matches before the league was suspended because of the coronavirus lockdown. The men’s side, who have won two league titles in the last three seasons, and now under the guidance of Tawanda Nemutambwe. They also lead the race after having won all their 17 opening matches. “I would like to thank everyone who has something to do with these teams. Indeed, we have dominated the HBA and we are looking unstoppable,” said Mbofana. “We have been able to attract competent technical and playing staff over the years. We have lost a number of players from both the women’s and men’s sides but the replacements have been amazing. “It all comes down to dedication and discipline. “At the moment, we are on lockdown and we can only hope that the COVID-19 pandemic will ease and allow us to complete the season. “I am confident we will win both titles.”