The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FORMER CAPS United captain Valentine Musarurwa and utility man Kudzi Nyamupfukudza lead an array of stars set for First Division football this coming season after they failed to make it into coach Darlington Dodo’s Premiership roster. Dodo excluded the pair along with five other senior members of the squad from his list which he registered with the Premier Soccer League. Musarurwa, Nyamupfukudza, Clive Rupiya, Kelvin Ndebele, Tinashe Balakasi, Pride Zivengwa and Obey Muleya all failed to make it into Dodo’s team. They all remain contracted to Makepekepe though and will be loaned to Black Mambas for at least the first half of the 2020 Premiership season whose start was delayed by the coronavirus outbreak. CAPS United were one of the busiest teams in the pre-season transfer season, shipping in 22 new players, including Balakasi and Muleya. The other 20 all made it into the 30-man squad registered by Dodo. CAPS United and Black Mambas have a partnership deal announced by the Green Machine’s vice-president Nhamo Tutisani. “Yes, we have a deal with Black Mambas. The deal will see the two clubs engage in different exchange programmes involving players and the technical staff. The players who coach Darlington Dodo would have excluded from his PSL register will be loaned to Black Mambas,” said Tutisani. “The matter is we need all the players we have at the moment but unfortunately only 25 plus the five development players will be registered with the PSL. The remainder will be loaned to Black Mambas. They could be recalled even in the mid-season transfer period.” While it was expected that the likes of Muleya and Balakasi were sure of being dropped, it is the quartet of Ndebele, Nyamupfukudza, Musarurwa and Rupiya who would feel hard done by the decision. The four were core members of the Makepekepe side which almost claimed the league title last season. And the fact that Dodo had had faith in retaining them after off-loading 13 others meant he still needed their services. But they will have to excel in Black Mambas colours in the first half of the season to stand a chance of being called back by Dodo. While other top-flight teams have already registered their players with the PSL deadline already closed, there is still some hope for all the seven as they could be loaned to Herentals. Herentals haven’t yet registered their players as they are awaiting the outcome of their appeal against PSL expulsion. The Students were expelled from the top-tier for allegedly taking football matters to the ordinary courts. They appear set to take on board all the seven CAPS United players if their appeal succeed as is largely likely.