The Herald Investigations and Special Reports Editor RAPISTS are on the prowl, waylaying girls and women who walk alone during lockdown period, with latest reports showing that at least 95 people were raped across the country between April 1 and 15 this year. Most of the victims, according to the police, were raped while walking in secluded places in violation of the lockdown directive, while a few children fell victim to their neighbours. A number of suspects were arrested for the offences, while some are still to be apprehended. President Mnangagwa declared the Covid-19 pandemic a state of disaster and initially ordered a 21-day lockdown beginning March 30 this year. On Sunday, the President announced the extension of the lockdown period by a further two weeks. While law-abiding citizens are indoors, sex predators are waylaying girls and women who break lockdown rules. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said police received 95 rape cases in the first two weeks of the lockdown period. He warned women to stay at home during lockdown and those who have good reasons to travel, should avoid secluded places. “In most cases, the rape victims are those people who break the lockdown measures and decide to visit friends or to loiter at night,” said Asst Comm Nyathi. “They end up falling victims to rapists. In the rural communities, some women and girls were raped while working in the fields. We have received 95 cases in the first two weeks of the lockdown and if people continue to loiter, the figures may rise.” Asst Comm Nyathi said women and girls must be protected always. “Women and girls deserve protection from the society against rape and sexual abuse,” he said. “We urge them to stay at home during this period and avoid unnecessary movements. “Those who are allowed to travel in terms of the law, must avoid walking alone at night neither should they use secluded routes.” Statistics show that the 95 rape cases reported from the beginning of lockdown to April 15 are less than 168 cases recorded during the same period last year. Police said the visibility of police officers and other security personnel had contributed to the decline in rape cases. According to police statistics, 193 cases of domestic violence were also recorded during the same lockdown period, a decline from 678 cases reported during the same time last year.