The Herald Business Reporter Craft Properties Holdings Zimbabwe has spread its footprint across Zimbabwe and some locations in the SADC region and internationally as the real estate market gains confidence with the services the company offers. The company continues to grow drenched by the waters of a vision that was sown in the City of Kadoma to spread beyond Zimbabwe’s borders. From its humble beginnings in Kadoma, Craft Properties Holdings, has successfully registered companies in Zambia and Botswana. Craft Properties Zambia Limited and CPH Holdings Botswana, are the latest entities joining the group. The entities join the international family of companies including the United States of America-based Craft Properties USA LLC in Texas. Registration into the South African market are already underway. According to founder and chief executive Kudakwashe Taruberekera, the new entities are a fulfilment of the vision to expand beyond Zimbabwe’s borders, targeting regional and international markets. “Our recent move to register companies in Zambia and Botswana in 2020 is a move to expand regionally. “We are in the process of registering a company in South Africa as we speak. We are not going to stop there as we aim to spread all over the world,” he said. Craft Properties is a member of the World Confederation of Businesses and has been published in the World Confederation of Businesses directory since 2019 to date. This directory covers Africa, America, Asia and Europe markets. It gives prospective home owners access to information about Craft Properties online. The directory gathers information on leading international companies covering more than 130 countries worldwide. These companies would have proven business excellence and social responsibility in their host countries. “Our aim is for Craft Properties to be the leading ambassador of businesses in Zimbabwe on the international stage. We intend to pave the way for Zimbabwean companies to penetrate the international business market.” Craft Properties’ core business is land development and construction but has also ventured into project management. “We are open to partner with other companies in the business of land development, construction and project management in all the countries we have ventured into that is, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Botswana and United States of America,” Mr Taruberekera said. In the USA, Craft Properties majors in Real Estate Business. The firm was founded in 2008. “It was through perseverance and hard work that enabled us to establish a very professional entity that has gone regionally and internationally. We encourage professional people to think outside the box and come up with ideas of how to establish businesses. “We challenge aspiring entrepreneurs to develop and refine their expertise in a talent, idea, service or body of knowledge. When you refine your gist in an area, you become valuable and people will seek you out and pay you.” Said Mr Taruberekera; “Our values of customer focus, commitment to service excellence, innovation, social responsibility, teamwork and integrity make us a team to reckon with. Our professional conduct as land developer led us to be awarded an International Business Licence in Oxford, United Kingdom by the Europe Business Assembly in accordance with United Kingdom Trademarks act of 1994 and Europe Business Assembly Awards regulations. The licence permits Craft properties to operate internationally.” Headquartered in Kadoma, Craft Properties have branches in Harare and Masvingo. The company is in the process of establishing a branch in Zvishavane.