The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
THIS coming Saturday could have seen one of Zimbabwe’s top junior motocross riders Emmanuel Bako making his way back to South Africa to compete in the fourth round of the 2020 Inland Championship at ERORA track just outside Johannesburg. The Inland Championship is part of the Northern Inter-provincial Championship in Gauteng. This year, it had been scheduled to feature 12 rounds spread from January to November 14. The first three rounds were held at ERORA on January 25, Dirt Bronco on February 22 and Smoking Pistons March 14. Thirteen-year-old Zimbabwean rider Bako ruled the roost in the 85cc ProMini Class. He won all his races in the opening three rounds which saw him sit at the top of the 85cc ProMini Class. He was looking forward to extend his lead in this section during the fourth round of this South African provincial motocross series scheduled for this Saturday at ERORA track at Kempton Park just outside Johannesburg. But, his hopes chalking up his fourth consecutive victory have since been derailed by the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. It has forced South Africa, like almost all the other countries in the world, to stop all sporting activities indefinitely. Bako is also competing in the seven-round 2020 South African National Motocross Championship whose second and third rounds, which were scheduled for March 28 at Zone 7 in Cape Town and May 30 at BORC in Bloemfontein, were shelved. South Africa are currently under a stay-at-home national order until April 30. Bako’s father and manager, Brighton, said the postponement of all sporting activities across the world has seen his son developing anxiety issues during this period. ‘’Emmanuel had high hopes of winning both the (Inland and South African National) championships this year but we all need to stay safe from this coronavirus which is a killer. ‘’It’s obvious that he is disappointed by the latest developments as he is really determined to leave a mark on the South African tracks this year. “This coming Saturday could have seen him going to South Africa to compete in the fourth round of this year’s Inland Championship where he was looking forward to extend his lead in the 85cc ProMini Class but, unfortunately, he can’t travel to Johannesburg due to this coronavirus pandemic. “It is very frustrating for him as he wanted to build on the good form he showed during the opening three rounds of this year’s Inland Championship. “Remember, when all the sporting activities were halted in South Africa due to the outbreak of the coronavirus, ‘’Emmanuel had just competed in the third round of this year’s Inland Championship at Smoking Pistons on March 14 where he recorded his third straight victory in this series. “And this coming Saturday could have given him the opportunity to extend his lead in the 85cc ProMini Class Standings but everything has now been put on hold because of what is happening all over the world and we just hope everything will get back to normal soon,” Brighton said. He also said Emmanuel is continuing with his training as they have built a mini motocross track at their home in Marlborough. He is being trained by his trainer, Stanley Mugiyo. “Emmanuel hasn’t stopped training and he is training at home to keep fit under his trainer Stanley Mugiyo and when all the racing activities start again, here in Zimbabwe and South Africa, he will be ready to lead again,” Brighton said. 