The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter GOALKEEPER Simba Chinani will stick around with Premiership giants Dynamos for sometime after receiving no feedback from Russia where he recently spent a month on trials. Chinani was in Europe for trials with top-flight side, Rubin Kazan, along with young forward Nigel Katawa who also trained with some lower league clubs. Both players were sent for trials by their handlers and have since returned home. It appears they are not likely to get any feedback soon because of the coronavirus lockdown that has led to a complete shutdown of football business in Europe and across the globe. Russia has also closed its borders to foreigners amid the coronavirus outbreak. Chinani has since extended his contract with the Glamour Boys and is part of the squad registered with the Premier Soccer League for the upcoming season. Katawa did not renew his contract. Dynamos chief executive, Jonathan Mashingaidze, yesterday said they have not received communication regarding the two players. “There is no official position that has been agreed. So, it means the status quo remains, until we get official communication from the club (in Russia),” said Mashingaidze. Chinani’s profile has grown in the past two seasons and the goalkeeper has also risen to become the first-choice for the home-based Warriors who have qualified for the 2020 African Nations finals, which have since been postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak. DeMbare, who also parted ways with reserve goalkeeper Stephen Chimusoro, had also brought on board impressive former Hwange goalkeeper Taimon Mvula to strengthen the department which also has veteran Munyaradzi Diya. The Glamour Boys believe they have assembled a strong squad this year and even had the luxury of sending the likes of Walter Sande on loan to rivals Black Rhinos. “We parted ways with a number of players. Some of their contracts were not renewed, some were released, some sent on loan and it was mostly amicable,” said Dynamos chairman Isaiah Mupfurutsa. DeMbare have gone on a massive signing spree, bringing in 15 new players, as they have made it no secret they want to turn back the hands of time to the days when they dominated the domestic football scene. Among the top players they have brought on board are Young Warriors stars, Juan Mutudza and Tinotenda Chiunye, as well as King Nadolo and Barnabas Mushunje. DeMbare have had one of their best pre-seasons in recent years. However, the club have also felt the pinch of the current coronavirus lockdown that has left world football facing uncertainty after the start of domestic league was put on hold.