The Herald The Southern African Development  Community (SADC) has adopted special guidelines to harmonise and  facilitate the movement of critical goods and services across the region  during the Covid-19 pandemic. Countries in the region including Zimbabwe, South Africa, Namibia and Botswana have enforced total lockdowns in an effort to stop the spread  of Covid-19. In an effort to ease challenges posed by the lockdowns, Sadc council of  Ministers convened an emergency virtual meeting on Monday where they  agreed to facilitate the flow of essential goods such as fuel, food and  medicines and limiting unnecessary and mass movement of passengers  across borders. In a statement, Sadc encouraged governments to categorise cross border truck drivers, pilots and crews as workers undertaking essential and  exempted services to facilitate their movement. “Only trucks/vehicles with cargo, goods and services including food,  medical equipment and medicines, including medical supplies and personal protection equipment, fuel, including coal, agricultural inputs and  supplies, chemicals, packaging, equipment, spares, maintenance materials  and ancillary products used in the production and processing of food  products, security, emergency and humanitarian relief services will be  allowed to operate in interstate operations in order to ensure  continuity of supply chains,” read the statement. “Other goods and products may be agreed among and between member  states.” The statement said this would be done through the simplification and  automation of trade and transport facilitation processes and documents. To reduce face to face interaction and delays at ports and borders,  member states were encouraged to introduce or enhance pre-clearance of  goods and single window processing and online platforms for the  clearance of imports and exports, application, issuance and renewals of  licences and permits, registration of drivers, operators, vehicles and  loads. Inter-state mass movement of persons by buses/minibuses or other  vehicles will be suspended for defined periods except when special exemptions have been granted. The special cross border permits have to be mutually agreed and  recognised by the country of origin, country of destination and country  of transit. “Citizens and residents returning to home countries will be subject to  local regulations on screening and testing and may be subjected to  isolation and quarantine if deemed necessary,” it said. Operators or organisations who apply for the special permits have to  meet certain conditions including reducing the number of passengers in a  bus, minibus or other vehicle to allow for social distancing. Sadc said the provision of WHO recommended hygiene facilities on the  vehicle, information dissemination to passengers on Covid-19  preventative measures were also some of the conditions. Passengers also have to complete travel history questionnaires, which  will be handed over to port health authorities. For other modes of transport including air and rail member, states will  consult and agree on the suspension of interstate transport services and  the conditions for services that will be allowed to continue. “Inter-state travelling of persons should be discouraged and where it  takes place it should be according to travel advisories, rules and  procedures put in place by country of origin, transit and destination.” — New Ziana