The Herald LONDON.  — Will Liverpool get the chance to end their long wait for the English Premier League football title or will there forever be an asterisk against a season that remains unfinished due to coronavirus? English Premier League stakeholders are meeting this Friday to discuss the way forward, with widespread speculation over a potential June 8 restart. With the Dutch Eredivisie already called off and the Belgian season in the balance, there have been calls for the English top-flight to draw a line under the season. But the clubs remain committed to ending the 2019/20 campaign and there are compelling financial and legal ramifications to playing the remaining 92 games. Since the Premier League was suspended on March 13, English clubs have endured a torrid time, with controversies over pay cuts and players breaking social-distancing rules tarnishing the brand. Getting the focus back on football would be a welcome boost for the league, as well as fans who would embrace the diversion offered by the return of matches. European football’s governing body UEFA last week said completing seasons remained the “ideal scenario”. If that is not possible, leagues were urged to find ways of restarting “with a different format”, which could mean play-offs in some cases. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has reportedly been briefed on a potential plan for fixtures to be played behind closed doors. And in a sign that English Premier League teams are gearing up for a potential return to action, Arsenal, Tottenham, West Ham and Brighton have allowed players to return to individual training. “I believe the Premier League can finish,” Wolves winger Diogo Jota told BBC Sport. “Although some leagues can end right away, others can start sooner. I know almost every country in the world has the Premier League as one of the leagues to watch so it is major that we can finish the season.” As manager of Dutch club Den Haag, who were spared relegation, former Newcastle and Crystal Palace boss Alan Pardew has a unique perspective on the issue. He believes the English top tier will be played to a finish to avoid costly court battles.  — AFP.