The Herald Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter THE Zimbabwe Catholic Bishop’s Conference (ZCBC) says Zimbabwe can use its forthcoming 40th anniversary of independence to reflect on what has been achieved to initiate processes that will take the country forward. In its latest pastoral letter, the ZCBC said Zimbabwe celebrates the 40th Independence anniversary six days after Easter Sunday, which is used by Christians to commemorate the resurrection of Jesus Christ, triumph of life over death, good over evil. “For the children of Zimbabwe this is a moment of recognising the opportunity offered to us by God. It demands that we look back to where we are coming from, acknowledge our gains, sins and pains, reflect on where we are today and look into the future, initiate processes that will lead us to the dream that God has and the dream that we have for our country Zimbabwe,” read the letter. The ZCBC said the journey of God and his people was symbolically captured in the number 40. It added that the number is mentioned directly or by implication at least 140 times in the Bible. “The number 40 specially describes this loving journey of God with His people and of the people of Israel back to their God . . . the number 40 represents the journey to safety of the family of Noah through their obedience and also languishing of the rest who did not obey. The number 40 has great spiritual and theological meaning as it is a period of rebuilding, rediscovery which at times came through destruction as in the time of floods.” Catholic bishops said the number 40 was symbolic of the journey to Israelites’ freedom as they journeyed for 40 years in the desert to the Promised Land. It also represents the time long enough to discover solace in the Lord as Elijah did for 40 days in prayer. “The number also marks the reign of God through his emissaries as we see in the reign of judges such as Deborah, Barak, Eli and Gideon. It is also a time of advent as in the instance of Samson, making God’s reign present through overcoming the Palestinians who for 40 years had been a menace to the children of God, Israel.” Zimbabwe, the ZCBC added, was born out of hunger for freedom from oppression, racism, inequality, violation of basic human rights and dignity, poverty and hunger.