The Herald Entertainment Reporter Memories of shows that Peter Johns churned out with unmatched expertise have come back flashing in most people’s minds following the death of the legendary presenter who rocked Radio 3 (now Power FM) with classic selections. He was an expert in his trade and listeners of yesteryear radio programmes have shared the grief of losing the talented DJ who died on Monday evening in the United Kingdom. Tributes poured out from many that knew him, mostly his fellow radio presenters. There were tributes from people that worked with him and a younger generation that drew inspiration from him. Below are some messages posted on social media in honour of The Radio Driver: Power FM: “It is with sad hearts that Powerfm heard of the passing of much loved radio Dj Peter Johns. He was affectionately known as “PJ your DJ” & “The Radio Driver”. He hosted the Midday Jam on Radio 3. He left the station in 2002 and was now based in the United Kingdom.” Steve Vickers: “Tragic news, former Radio 3 presenter Peter Johns has died. One of Zimbabwe’s greatest presenters ever” Kennedy “Kaycee Gigmaster” Masawi: “Took some time to really take it… Waited for someone to say it wasn’t true… Worked with you at Radio 3fm, had gigs with you… #greatmemories Rest in Peace Peter Johns “PJ” The Radio Driver…” Kelvin Ncube: “ I’m so full of grief…. DJ Peter Johns my idol!!! The best to ever do it @DJPeterJohns ..Matthew 5:4 — Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.” Daniel Mckenzie: “Sad to hear of the passing of Former Radio DJ Peter John’s. We had some grant times. You were a great DJ of your time. Rest in Peace PJ, you have played your last Song. God Bless your Family.” Ezra Tshisa Sibanda: “Radio Driver” but why my brother? I’m shocked and don’t even know what to say. Rest in Peace my Big Brother. Dear God what is going on? Otis Fraser: “Peter Johns was and still is a great inspiration to me personally. He is the reason I was motivated to present! He is to me and I’m sure to others. The greatest of all time MHSRIP” Buttler Nhepure: “If it wasn’t the voice, it was the jingle, if it wasn’t the jingle, it was the music, if it wasn’t the music, it was the enigmatic mystery of his life, we all yearned for a little part of Peter Johns. I am very sad.”