The Herald Veronica Gwaze Sports Writer University of Zimbabwe Wolves men’s volleyball bid to extend their dominance from the local circles to the rest of Africa has been placed on hold following the suspension of the African Club Championships following the worldwide outbreak of the new corona virus. Apart from the African Club Championships, the University team were also supposed to defend their dominance at the University games next week at the oldest University campus in the country. The suspension of games is part of global efforts to contain the threats posed by new corona virus, which has also seen all other sporting activities being deferred. The African Club Championships, previously scheduled for April 11-22 with more than 20 African teams clashing for gold will be held at a date to be announced later. In a letter signed by Confederation Africaine de Volleyball president Amr Elwani earlier this week, the confederation officially announced the postponement of the tourney. “The agreement to postpone the championships has been arrived at in the best interest of all the parties considering that the health of the athletes, officials and fans is to be given priority by all sporting authorities,” reads part of the letter. At the continental showcase, UZ Wolves were set to join Harare City men and other African giants in a battle for silverware. The two qualified after they finished off first and second respectively at the Zone VI tourney in Malawi last December. However, the effects of the new corona virus have affected preparations by the University’s team that were already at an advanced stage. And newly appointed head coach Erasmus Mupukuta, despite remaining largely unfazed, reckons the shelving of games could have psychological effects on his charges. Mupukuta was thrust into the hot seat after renowned gaffer Chekuda Makuyana who coached the University side to gold both locally and at Zone VI left to join new club J-Vicks. “Well, I have been with the boys barely a week although I am not entirely new to them and the system,” he said. Mupukuta last season coached UZ wolves’ women to the local championship. “It may come with psychological effects on the boys because remember part of the game is in the brains and they have been preparing for some time now. “With how much they have invested towards this, they were psychologically ready and to have the tournament postponed like this will definitely affect them, it kills the vibe. “From the two sessions, you could tell they really wanted this and the Saturday contest was crucial because it would also act as part of the preparations,” explained the coach. At the Zone VI games, skipper Tafadzwa Keni scooped the best server individual award, while Steven Musabayana clenched the best setter. And the coach feels the awards were excellent confidence-boosters for the team. He believes the individual achievements fuelled momentum in camp. And when the games resume, his charges will need to restart and refocus on intense training.. “As for the Varsity games, the postponement came as a blessing because it would have meant that I was to take the boys to the contest when I had only met them twice. “The postponement buys me more time to train intensely with them, see areas that we need to focus much on and assess various other issues related,” he added.