The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
SIMBA Nyamupfukudza, the father of rising motocross stars, Tadiwanashe (12) and Victor (6), scratches his head and almost drops a tear, but then realises he has every reason to thank God. His bid to keep his children in shape for the sport they have dominated, in the past two years, almost backfired in the worst terrible manner. Last month, Nyamupfukudza packed his children’s training kits and retreated back to his rural home in Mutoko. For almost a fortnight, the duo trained on the countryside tracks. “You know, racing is a bit different from other sports. It needs a hands-on approach,’’ he said. “There was definitely no way the two would practice in the backyard of our house. “So, we thought it would be easy if we tracked into the rural landscape, that is why we were in Mutoko. “I should say for close to two weeks, we did well as the terrain was demanding. They are scheduled to race in high-profile competitions when the coronavirus pandemic is declared over.’’ But, before Nyamupfukudza realised it, his children contracted malaria. “Mutoko is a malaria-prone area and, unfortunately, both Tadiwanashe and Victor contracted malaria,’’ he said. “It was terrible but I have to salute the medical staff at Charehwa Clinic who were so kind to them. We didn’t pay a cent for their treatment. “They are now recovering at home (in Harare).” The duo’s training kits are in Mutoko while they are already in the capital. “Everything they had gained, training on the countryside, has been lost now. It’s now a battle to save their lives rather than having them gain something in terms of their sport,’’ he said. “But, I should thank God, they are alive. If you ask me, malaria is as deadly as coronavirus. “So, to see them recover from the disease, really makes me smile.’’ He doesn’t know if he will take them back to Mutoko for recovery training or wait until the lockdown ends. “You see, that is the burden that the coronavirus epidemic comes with. In trying to run away from it, you could end up in some trouble,’’ he said. “We are supposed to be training hard in preparation of the FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships to be held in Uganda, in just a few months from now, but the track at Donnybrook here in Harare is closed. “These are mere children we are talking about. I will have to pay some money to have psychologists available for them. “They have raced all their lives and letting them go for weeks without riding could be disastrous for their minds. “They are like our other children, the boy (Victor) likes playing street soccer, watching television and doing video games while Tadiwanashe is interested in house chores and she’s into hockey as well.’’