The Herald CAPE TOWN. — Cape Town City chairman John Comitis is in favour of Financial Fair Play regulations being introduced in the PSL but explains why it would be difficult to introduce. Financial Fair Play is a set of regulations under UEFA laws in which European clubs cannot spend more money on transfers and wages than they earn as income. Comitis, one of the most experienced football club owners and administrators in South Africa, believes this kind of rule might help a lot in the future if the PSL was to lose some of its sponsors. “Well I can tell you now, probably 70 to 80 percent of the club owners are putting in money from their own pocket,” Comitis told KickOff.com. “And that (Financial Fair Play) would mean a drastic change in the salary packages of players, which maybe is alright because we have inflated salaries in many instances. “But in other instances they are well deserved you know, so it’s a balance. I think the most important thing is we should have more dialogue between club chairmen about this thing going forward. “If the League’s sponsors are not able to assist us and the SuperSport (TV) deal is not available to continue as it is now, we have to make adjustments. We can’t just pay out of our own pockets, we’ll just go bankrupt. “So you know players have to adjust, and perhaps performance-based contracts will be best so the guys that are playing in the (starting) eleven are the ones that are earning the money. “You know that’s how life is in general, you want money, you need to be performing. So when you are in the line-up you get extra bonuses, when you are not in the line-up you don’t. There’s an appearance bonus and a win bonus. So you can make up your R100 000 and R150 000 a month that you want. But you need to be playing. “The problem is when you paying that and the guys are sitting on the bench, and you’re wondering if they are working hard enough. But you see them on Instagram . . . in the meantime they are not playing in the line-up. Then you’re wondering what are you doing with this player? These things happen. “Imagine if you could get 16 teams to cooperate like they do in the USA like in the MLS where you have salary brackets — Kick-Off.