The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter
The unity of purpose between the Office of the President and Cabinet, the Public Service Commission and Treasury should drive the transformation of the country’s economic fortunes, Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda has said. In his Independence Day congratulatory message at the weekend, Dr Sibanda called for increased support for President Mnangagwa in the country’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Sibanda said the nation’s resolve should ensure victory in the fight against the virus. The country celebrated its independence on Saturday. “Without doubt, the tripartite that we have forged with the Public Service Commission and Treasury at the apex of the machinery of Government, will drive socio-economic transformation to new heights,” said Dr Sibanda. “The global health emergency posed by the Covid-19 outbreak demands that we redouble our support for His Excellency the President’s clarion call for the unity of purpose and resourcefulness required for national survival. “The pandemic might shake our foundations and threaten to reverse the gains of our hard-won Independence, but our resolve and collective response shall bring victory. That victory will enable our beloved motherland to commit more resources to innovation and development for the transformation of livelihoods.” Dr Sibanda said Independence Day offered Zimbabweans an opportunity to pledge their loyalty and commitment to serving the nation under the visionary leadership of President Mnangagwa. He said the 40 years of independence were a culmination of the sacrifices that the country’s heroes, both living and departed, undertook to have a free and democratic State. “The advent of independence in 1980 marked the start of an era of empowerment for the people of our great nation, through a massive transformational programme of rapid expansion in the provision of education, primary healthcare, housing, water, energy, roads and other critical social amenities,” he said. Dr Sibanda said the next decade required adoption of digital technologies.