The Herald ASUNCION. — Barcelona legend Ronaldinho has reportedly been released from a maximum-security prison in Paraguay after being held captive for more than a month. The former AC Milan and Paris Saint-Germain star was found in possession of fake passports along with his brother Roberto Assis and has reportedly been involved in football matches behind bars, while he became a popular figure among inmates. However, his time in jail is over and he has been placed under house arrest instead, according to Globoesporte. Bail of US$1.6m (£1.3m) will be paid by the former Ballon d’Or winner and his brother and they will stay in a hotel two miles away from where they were incarcerated. Judge Gustavo Amarilla granted the motion after the fourth request to review the case from the former Brazil and Barcelona star’s lawyer and a bail payment of $1.6 million. The 2002 World Cup winner will be placed under police custody at a hotel in the Paraguayan capital, Asuncion. Ronaldinho (40) and his brother, Roberto Assis (who is also his business manager), entered the country on March 4 with falsified passports, even though residents of Brazil do not need passports to enter their landlocked neighbour. Although not initially arrested, they were told to remain in their hotel suite in Asuncion while authorities investigated the matter. Two days later, they were in jail, with a judge denying them bail and refusing to release them into house arrest, saying the brothers posed a flight risk. The probe into the falsified passports has expanded into an investigation into possible money laundering. Sources have told ESPN that Ronaldinho was “loved” by his fellow prisoners at the jail, where he spent most of his time in a cell. Daily activities included playing football with the inmates and the employees and attending a carpentry course. Sources added that Ronaldinho was “relaxed” in prison, though he missed being able to play music, one of his favourite hobbies. Ronaldinho celebrated his 40th birthday behind bars, with previous appeals to be placed on house arrest turned down because they were deemed to be a flight risk. There were fears Ronaldinho could face at least six months behind bars before the trial was ready to proceed, while that could be delayed further following the coronavirus outbreak. However, he has been allowed to leave the maximum security facility after just 32 days. He was a picture of happiness as he rocked up to the Hotel Palmaroga in Paraguay’s capital city of Asuncoin. Ronaldinho hugged his family and friends as officers guided him through the crowds towards the hotel reception. — ESPN FC.