The Herald ZIMBABWE international forward, Tino Kadewere, is likely to be crowned winner of the French Ligue 2 Golden Boot after authorities in that country called off the remainder of their football season. However, should the entire season be declared null and void, with a decision for that set to be made next month, it would mean the 20 goals he scored for Le Havre, will also be nullified. No Golden Boot winner will be crowned. French football leaders are set to meet next month to decide, whether or not, to void the season or come up with a way to determine the final standings. Yesterday’s decision also means that the French Ligue 1 becomes the first of Europe’s Big Five leagues — which includes the English Premiership, the Spanish La Liga, the German Bundesliga and the Italian Serie A — to have its season brought to a premature end by authorities. This could also be used as a precedent, by some of the authorities in the Big Five leagues, who are still battling to find ways of how to deal with the crisis which the COVID-19 pandemic has inflicted on their football, in particular, and their sport, in general. The landmark French decision also came on the day the FIFA medical chief, Michael D’Hooghe, issued a chilling warning that restarting the current football season, in the coming weeks, could cause a deadly second spike of the COVID-19 pandemic. D’Hooghe believes football should not resume until end of August, or the beginning of September, with a fresh season as rushing back risks serious consequences. It could also be used as a template by various authorities around the world, including those in Zimbabwe, whose football season was put on hold before a ball has been kicked. This might mean this year’s campaign being cancelled. Kadewere could be crowned winner of the French Ligue 2 Golden Boot for his 20 goals, in 24 matches, which drew the interests of Ligue 1 one side, Lyon, where he will ply his trade next season. The Zimbabwean marksman’s tally includes six penalties, while he also missed twice from the spot kick. He finishes the season three goals clear of Clermont’s Adrian Grbic, who is not set to finish with 17 goals. Yoane Wissa of Lorient could finish third with 15 goals. However, the whole season could be declared null and void and all the goals scrapped. French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe declared yesterday that no sporting events will be held in the country until September, at the earliest, thereby cancelling the remainder of the Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 season. In a speech to the National Assembly, Philippe said he would not sanction the return of the sport, even behind closed doors, due to the risk of a second outbreak of COVID-19. “The big sporting affairs cannot occur before September,” he said. “The 2019/20 professional football season cannot return.” While it will be permissible for people to exercise outdoors, after May 11, he added, “it will not be possible to practise sport in covered places, nor team or contact sports. “If the (health) indicators are not there, we will not end confinement on May 11.’’ Football’s resumption has been viewed as secondary to matters involving tourism and catering in France. The president of the French scientific council on coronavirus, Jean-Paul Delgraissy, was completely against the resumption of football in the near future. “The answer for the moment is no, since all the places where there can be a significant public will not be open from May 11,’’ he said. “We give ourselves a few weeks. We are watching what is happening.’’ UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin and general secretary Theodore Theodoridis have spoken to leagues in Europe, including Ligue 1 and the Premier League, and asked them for a detailed plan on how they will finish the campaign. The Bundesliga in Germany has announced plans to return to action on May 9 behind closed doors while conversely the Eredivisie in the Netherlands has been cancelled with major events in Holland banned until September due to the coronavirus outbreak. Speaking to The Daily Telegraph newspaper, FIFA medical chief, D’Hooghe, painted a bleak picture. “We are all subject to decisions at national level from the public authorities. It is very simple. Football suddenly becomes not the most important thing in life. “I will be happy if we can start, in a convenient way, the next championship and have nothing before the start of next season. “If they could start the season 2020-21 end of August or beginning of September I would be happy. Then they could eventually avoid a second attack from the virus, which is not impossible. “Everyone has to be very careful for the moment. I have heard in many countries they are thinking about playing football again, with or without the public. “In my long career I have seen many situations where there has been a balance between economics and health. Mostly the economics won, whether that was about jetlag or football at altitude or in extreme conditions such as pollution situations. “If there is one circumstance where medical arguments should win against economical arguments, it is now. It is not a matter of money, it is a matter of life and death. “It is very simple.’’ Various countries are tentatively starting to lift lockdown restrictions that have been in place for several weeks though social distancing rules remain in place. D’Hooghe expressed concern that players on a football field would not be able to adhere to these rules and sees teams changing and showering together as another problem. He is also worried that players spitting on the ground causes a potential issue when it comes to spreading the virus. — Sports Reporter/Daily Telegraph/The Sun/Mailonline.