The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent Rising sungura artiste Romeo Gasa intends to collaborate with various local and regional artistes on his upcoming album titled “Chibenzi Chinobhadhara” earmarked for release towards the end of the year. The musician has been riding high with his latest offering “Tamba Irikurira” released late last year. Off the album, “Sirivia” has been topping radio charts, while “Mukoma Zanda” and “Munamato Wahwindi” have also been receiving favourable airplay. Gasa feels collaborations will expand his reach and grow his career. He is working with Botswana-based producer Dr Tawanda and Botswana artiste Vee Mampeezy of the “Taku Taku” fame. “I’m recording a song with Vee Mampeezy from Botswana and Dr Tawanda,” he said. “I also have a separate collaboration with Dr Tawanda which also features on my album. “Dr Tawanda will be producing the songs.” Gasa said he had plans to work with various local artistes. “I have plans to collaborate with local artists among them Mathias Mhere, Jah Signal, Tocky Vibez and Jah Prayzer,” he said. Gasa said he was using the Government imposed 21-day Covid-19 lockdown period to work on new music. “The lockdown period afforded me ample time to work on new stuff so that when it is lifted I will be ready to rehearse with my band and see what we can come up with,” he said. Gasa said he had two songs ready which he will be sampling on stage once he resumes shows. “I have two songs “Chihera” and the title track “Chibenzi Chinobhadhara” ready for recording,” he said. “I will be sampling them on stage once the ban on public gatherings is lifted.” Gasa said “Chihera” plays on the stereotype painted on the women of the mhofu totem. “The song just plays on the stereotypes that the Chihera women are hard working, hard to please and too controlling,” he said. “Chibenzi Chinobhadhara is a song that speaks on how the things some people take as foolishness like music and football is paying off for others.” Gasa called on relevant authorities to support musicians in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “There should be funds to support artistes in times like these,” he said. “We are not working and most of the musicians live from hand to mouth which means most of them are with no money to buy food or pay rentals. “Our government should remember us because when it comes to national programmes musicians are the ones used to bring and entertain people.”