The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter MISTRY CHIPERE is not a popular name in Zimbabwean football. But, he is no ordinary football fan. Ever since the likes of Nottingham Forest rightback, Tendayi Darikwa, and centreback Alec Mudimu cemented their places in the Warriors, ZIFA have activated their systems to try and lure all those eligible to play for Zimbabwe. Several players have since represented the junior national football teams. Yet, all those players were previously reluctant to represent Zimbabwe. But, one man, started a social media campaign and convinced the players’ parents, even visiting the players at their respective bases, using his personal resources, just to make them fall in love with Zimbabwe. ‘‘I have never sought to glorify myself but what I wanted was to have all players, with Zimbabwean roots, to come and represent the country in international matches,’’ said Chipere. ‘‘You know, I am a football ultra. My business trips to the UK, and other parts of the world, opened my eyes and I decided to start a social media campaign to try and convince the players to consider playing for Zimbabwe’’. ‘‘I launched the Zimbabwe Foreign Legion campaign and we had Darikwa (Tendayi), who was already willing to play for the country.’’ With the help of Darikwa, Chipere was able to reach out to many other players across Europe. Chipere now has more than 100 players eligible to play for the Warriors in his database. He started following defender Mudimu’s team on social media when the player was still plying his trade at Halifax before getting into contact with the central defender. ‘‘l was following his (Mudimu) team on social media, so I looked for his contact and spoke to him. It was him, those days, and another Zimbabwean, Cliff Moyo, at Halifax.’’ ‘‘There was also Adam Chicksen at Bradford City, I approached him and he showed positive feedback’’. Chipere is also in constant touch with AFC Bournemouth wingback Jordan Zemura, who this week expressed his willingness to play for Zimbabwe. The 20-year-old already possesses a Zimbabwean passport. He is also trying to convince Reading’s Andrew Rinomhota to come and play for Zimbabwe and has Hamilton’s David Moyo under his radar. ‘‘We need all these players to come and play for our senior national team if we are serious about qualifying for the World Cup finals for the first time in 2022 in Qatar.’’ ‘‘Remember, there are no short-cuts to World Cup qualification and we have to assemble our strongest team if we are to realise our dream of making our maiden appearance at this global football jamboree in two years’ time.’’ ‘‘This is no time to pick up some silly and small fights over who should be selected to play for Zimbabwe in the 2021 AFCON and 2022 World Cup qualifiers.’’ ‘‘We need to have a look, and pick every player who is eligible to play for the Warriors, whether that player is in Cambodia, Japan, China, Afghanistan or Nicaragua.’’ ‘‘As long as they’re good, we need to call them for national service,” Chipere said. Other players whom Chipere, through his Foreign Legion, has brought into the national teams, of course with the endorsement of ZIFA, include Young Warriors stars Matifadza Zata, Martin Mapisa, Jordan Zemura and Seith Patrick. Wellington Mpandare, who was the Warriors team manager at the 2019 AFCON finals, has dealt with Chipere and says the super fan has done a tremendous job for the country. ‘‘Look at Darikwa and Mudimu, this is a good initiative by the guy as well as all those whom he has partnered for this noble issue,’’ said Mpandare. Darikwa is taking advantage of the coronavirus-enforced window to do light training. He hopes to bulldoze his way back into the Nottingham Forest first team after he was floored by injury last year. The English Championship is on hold, just like any other league in the world and Darikwa, who this week warned Zimbabweans to stay at home, is close to full recovery.