The Herald ZIMBABWE’S sports stars are now playing a big role in raising funds and equipment needed in the battle against Covid-19. They have responded to the challenge, and are now playing an influential role to give the Government a helping hand in the national battle to deal with this pandemic which has ravaged the world and killed tens of thousands. They have followed into the footsteps of some of the world’s sports superstars, including leading footballers Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, and Swiss tennis legend, Roger Federer, who have poured millions into the cause. Federer and his wife Mirka donated US$1,02 million to help “the most vulnerable families” in Switzerland deal with the challenges posed by the pandemic. “These are challenging times for everyone and nobody should be left behind,” the 20-time Grand Slam winner said when he announced his donation. “Our contribution is just a start, we hope that others might join in supporting more families in need. Together we can overcome this crisis.” And football superstars, Messi and Ronaldo, responded by donating US$1,1 million each in the fight against the pandemic. Messi’s donation went to Hospital Clinic in Barcelona, which is both treating the victims of the pandemic and researching possible vaccines, and drugs which could in future be used to treat the virus. Portuguese superstar Ronaldo, together with his agent Jorge Mendes, jointly donated life-saving equipment to hospitals in Lisbon and Porto as part of their efforts to help their country deal with the pandemic. Now, we are seeing our own leading sports persons coming to the fore to play their part in the battle against this pandemic which has forced virtually the entire world into lockdown. Yesterday, we heard British heavyweight boxing star, Derek Chisora, who was born in this country, make a passionate plea to the nation to follow the guidelines issued by our political leaders, and health authorities, for the country to emerge victorious in this battle against coronavirus. Chisora hasn’t been back home for a long time, but that hasn’t stopped him from identifying with his motherland and, speaking in Shona as if to both emphasise the point and connect with his fellow countrymen and women, he said this is not the time for people to take chances but, rather, to heed the advice of authorities. Because of their huge following, the sports stars can reach a huge constituency, and we are happy that they are using their influence to good use. Former Warriors star, Esrom Nyandoro, who was part of the pioneer group of Zimbabwean footballers to feature at the AFCON finals in Tunisia in 2004, will auction his football memorabilia on Monday to raise funds to help this country battle the Covid-19 pandemic. Nyandoro will auction the number 3 jersey he wore, during the Warriors’ historic opening AFCON finals match against Egypt in the Tunisian city of Sfax, in 2004. The base value for that jersey is US$10 000. Those who wish to buy it will have to fork either US$10 000 or, depending with how the auction will unfold that day, even more than that. Nyandoro, who is based in South Africa, will donate the proceeds to the campaign started by Zimbabwean model, Samantha Tshuma, to try and secure more than a million masks and other protective equipment to help the country fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Also to be auctioned are the boots which Nyandoro wore when the Warriors notched up their first victory at the AFCON finals with a 2-1 win over Algeria. Also set to be auctioned will be Nyandoro’s Mamelodi Sundowns jerseys and boots which will be sold to the general public, where each bidder is expected to pay a R1 000 participation fee. A maximum of 200 participants will be allowed to take part in the auction which will conducted via Nyandoro’s Instagram page. Former Warriors captain, Willard Katsande, who is also based in South Africa, has also joined the #Onemillionmasks and sanitisers campaign. The gritty midfielder captained his country at the 2017 AFCON finals and revealed this week that he will play his part to try and help his country in this huge battle. “Me and you have a role to play to save lives. I urge everybody in our country to support the one million masks and sanitisers campaign. I am here supporting that,” said Katsande. “I challenge four players, Khama (Billiat), Knox (Mtizwa), Onesimo (Bhasera) and Kuda (Mahachi) to donate as I have already made my donation. Together we can pull this, together we can beat this.” We are charmed by the way our sports stars have embraced the need to help the Government, in particular, and the country, in general, find a way to fight this pandemic as a united nation. It shows that, even though they are making their living elsewhere, they have not forgotten the fact that they are Zimbabweans and have a duty to help their country, as and when a challenge comes along, and their response is welcome. Now, and again, we have seen these sports stars being criticised for their way of lives, the super cars they drive and the huge mansions they live in, while the majority of the world languishes in poverty. But, as they have shown in these challenging days and months, by using their star power to try and give a helping hand, these celebrities also have a heart and know they can make a huge difference. We are one nation, one people, and the only way we can defeat this pandemic is for us to be united and our sports stars are showing they surely love their country.