The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Kaizer Chiefs forward Khama Billiat  and two Mamelodi Sundowns stars have been listed among the most the most valuable 11 based footballers in Africa. With Billiat said to be one of the highest earners in the South African Absa Premiership, with seven titles to his name, it comes as no surprise to see the former Sundowns man listed with the continent’s finest. The Zimbabwe international may have struggled with injuries during the 2019/20 season but is still regarded as one of the most potent attackers in Africa. According to Transfermarkt, the Amakhosi star is the third-highest valued player at €1.9 million (R37m) on the continent. He is only behind Pyramids talisman Abdallah El-Said and Al Ahly’s Mohamed El Shenawy. The Egypt goalkeeper is ranked as the most valuable with an estimated market valuation of €2.2m (R43m) and he’s joined by Ahly teammates Ali Maaloul, Hussein El Shahat and Mohamed Afsha in the XI. Meanwhile, Sundowns duo Thapelo Morena and Andile Jali have both made the line-up amongst the most highly-rated stars in Africa with valuations of €1.4m (R27.5m) and €1.2m (R23.6m) respectively. Unsurprisingly North Africa dominates the list with Raja Casablanca, Esperance and Pyramids stars making up the rest of the team. When Kaizer Chiefs snatched Khama Billiat and Ramahlwe Mphahlele from Mamelodi Sundowns, many had high expectations. Billiat is yet to contribute at Chiefs in a meaningful way in his two seasons at Naturena while Mphahlele has spent more time in the stands for over a year. Sundowns legend, Roger Feutmba, feels a reason that could be contributing to them not performing is they might not be surrounded by great players like they were at Chloorkop. “When you look at those two players, Ramahlwe Mphahlele and Khama Billiat, they’ve done much more at Sundowns,” Feutmba told KickOff.com. “I strongly believe they did well because they were surrounded by great players. They were playing under the philosophy which suited their qualities. “But you can’t just say they are not doing well for Kaizer Chiefs. I think they are doing well even though it’s not the same as they were at Sundowns.” — Kick-Off.