The Herald LONDON. — Kyle Walker appears to have played his last football match for England with Three Lions boss Gareth Southgate livid that he flouted coronavirus lockdown rules to host a sex party at his flat. A report in The Sun revealed that Walker and a friend had invited two escorts to his flat in Cheshire last week Tuesday evening, having just hours earlier urged his 1,5 million followers on Twitter to observe the government’s lockdown guidelines. Walker apologised in a statement after the reports emerged, though is set to be fined two weeks’ wages by Manchester City — worth around £240 000. The bigger punishment may come from England boss Southgate, though, with the Daily Star claiming he has vowed never to pick Walker again, effectively ending the right-back’s international career at the age of just 29. It is claimed that Southgate has been left “seething” at Walker’s behaviour and feels he has not lived up to the standards expected of an England international. Walker played a key role in England’s run to the semi-finals of the World Cup in 2018 but has fallen out of favour more recently, not getting picked in the squad for the last six matches. Southgate has plenty of options at right back — with Liverpool’s Trent Alexander-Arnold, Manchester United youngster Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Atletico Madrid’s Kieran Trippier — but Walker’s actions have been described as “the final nail in the coffin”. “I want to take this opportunity to issue a public apology for the choices I made last week,” said Walker in a statement on Sunday. “I understand that my position as a professional footballer brings the responsibility of being a role model. As such, I want to apologise to my family, friends, football club, supporters and the public for letting them down. “There are heroes out there making a vital difference to society at the moment, and I have been keen to help support and highlight their amazing sacrifices and life-saving work over the past week. “My actions are in direct contrast to what I should have been doing regarding the lockdown.” By contrast, it was announced on Monday that both Southgate — who earns £3m a year — and England women’s boss Phil Neville would take 30 percent pay cuts to their salaries as the FA deals with the financial repercussions of the coronavirus pandemic. — Metro.