The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent Local visual artist, Option Nyahunzvi, is focusing his energy on creating a new body of works during Covid-19 lockdown. Nyahunzvi, whose work is appreciated in different parts of the world, said the lockdown gives him ample time to create. “There are no disturbances that usually come when there is a free movement of people, so I now have all the time I need to create new works without destructions,” he said. “I’m basically waking up every day, get into my studio and start working.” Nyahunzvi has a creative workspace at his home, Studio Shavi. His works include mixed media art, collages and 2D paintings. Nyahunzvi said Covid-19 should not deter creatives from working. “As creatives, we should take this time to create new work inspired by the different situations we are going through during the pandemic,” he said. “We are also experiencing and are affected by the different implications not only of the lockdown, but also the disaster the world faces. We need to express these through our art.” Nyahunzvi said the creative process is therapeutic. “They maybe different uncertainties we are faced with each day, but being able to create art is very therapeutic,” he said. “It eases nerves and keeps one grounded.” Various creatives have been deterred from hosting their usual events due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This has seen many losing possible revenue. Nyahunzvi, whose work is collected and sold in different parts of the world, said he was affected earlier than many people. “The breaking and spreading of Covid-19 meant exhibitions, especially in Europe and United States were suspended,” he said. “This meant art collectors and galleries had to suspend business which was way earlier than when the pandemic then hit Zimbabwe. Thus, my source of income was affected way earlier that of many local creatives whose work is mainly consumed locally.” In visual art, many local exhibitions were suspended while shipping of artwork to foreign markets took a back-seat as many people focused on preparing for the brewing disaster. The talented visual artiste said he will start exhibit on social media.