The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS cheerleader, Chris “Romario” Musekiwa, composes all sort of songs for his Glamour Boys. The football addict, who has never missed a tournament involving the Warriors since 2004, is credited with having penned a good number of songs for the Glamour Boys. Apparently, he is part of one of the country’s top choral groups, Vabvuwi, for whom he has written a number of songs. His close friend, CAPS United superfan, Tatenda “ZiSuper” Mushonga, always carries a bundle of vegetables to his team’s matches. He often ties the vegetables to his dreadlocks. But, there is a challenge. The 2020 Premiership season has been put on hold due to the coronavirus outbreak currently ravaging the world. Both fans were scheduled to fly to Cameroon for the CHAN finals earlier this month. The tournament was, however, shelved because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “I have written a lot of songs during this lockdown period,” Musekiwa said. “You know, living without football is something painful.’’ ‘‘I have always watched football the whole of my life. Sitting at home, the whole day, is something weird.’’ “But, these are not ordinary times. We have to be home and for a worthy reason. The coronavirus issue is not a myth. We need to stay healthy and protect our loved ones from the deadly pandemic.’’ “We need to adhere to the health authorities’ guidelines to stay safe.” Musekiwa said he misses football but has found comfort in his other passion. “I have composed so many songs for Dynamos supporters and the group I am part of,’’ he said. ‘‘So, during this lockdown period, I am keeping myself occupied, writing songs for my club Dynamos and even for the Warriors.’’ ‘‘What I can say is that the disease is real, we need to stay safe. It shall surely pass and life will get back to normal, so in the meantime, let’s help each other by staying at home.” While Musekiwa is writing songs, Mushonga has gone into gardening. “This is something else. We never thought one day we will have a time like this. I am not used to be always at home,” said Mushonga. “It’s a bitter pill for real. I always want to be watching my beloved team, CAPS United, in action and I also want to watch the Warriors. ‘‘I also enjoy the European leagues whenever our local season is on hold.’’ “But, look, this is a pandemic of inexplicable proportions, taking lives enmasse and ravaging every strata of life. “I love green and gardening has always been part of me. That’s what I am doing away from the football activities.’’ ‘‘Since vegetables are part of my CAPS United regalia, doing gardening makes me feel like the matches will be on very soon. ‘‘It keeps me connected to the game as it is from my garden that I often extract the vegetables which I take to the games.”