The Herald LOS ANGELES. — With movie theatres shutting down in many countries due to the Covid-19 outbreak, more movies slated to debut this summer have been delayed. Sony Pictures revealed on Monday that three of its upcoming summer movies — Ghostbusters: Afterlife, Uncharted, Greyhound and Morbius would be pushed to new dates. One of the studio’s movies, the Kevin Hart comedy Fatherhood, will actually be opening earlier. “Ghostbusters: Afterlife” has been pushed from its original date of July 10 this year to March 5, 2021. “Morbius” was originally slated to hit theatres on July 31, and now it will open on March 19, 2021. “Greyhound” was set for a July 12 release, but now its debut is ‘TBD’ (to be determined), with no concrete release slated at this time. “Uncharted”, which delayed the start of production earlier this month, is now slated to open on October 8, 2021, pushed from its March 5, 2021 date. “Fatherhood” will now open a few months earlier on October 23, up from its original January 15, 2021 release, while Sony also pushed an untitled Sony-Marvel movie from October 8, 2021 to ‘TBD.’ Earlier this month, Sony also pushed its animated sequel “Peter Rabbit 2” from August 7 to January 15, 2021. Movie theatres across the country have been shuttered en-masse since March 20 due to the spread of the coronavirus, and there is no indication when theatres may re-open. Sony had previously released its comic book adaptation “Bloodshot” on digital formats, just days after it had been released in theatres, due to the theatres closing. With Ghostbusters: “Afterlife”, “Morbius” and “Uncharted” getting new theatrical release dates, it seems the studio is still determined to release these in Ghostbusters: “Afterlife” follows a single mother (Carrie Coon) and her two kids (Finn Wolfhard, McKenna Grace), who move to a small town and realise their grandfather had a connection to the original Ghostbusters. “Morbius” is a spin-off of Sony’s 2018 hit “Venom”, following a biochemist, Michael Morbius (Jared Leto) who tries to cure himself of a rare blood disease but instead turns himself into a vampire. “Greyhound” stars Tom Hanks as an inexperienced Navy captain who must lead an allied convoy in battle against Nazi U-boats in World War II. “Uncharted” stars Tom Holland as the adventurer Nathan Drake, based on the hit video game franchise of the same name. — Daily Mail.