The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA’s grand plan to revive junior football countrywide is reeling under the weight of the coronavirus lockdown. The move, which has been generally been welcomed countrywide following the successful launch of structured youth leagues in each of the country’s four regions, now faces uncertainty. Both the launch, at national level, and start of the league, have been postponed indefinitely following the implementation of the coronavirus lockdown measures. The national launch was supposed to take place on March 24 in Mutare with the opening matches having been earmarked for early this month. ZIFA technical director, Wilson Mutekede, said the ambitious project, which was supposed to begin with boys and girls under-15 leagues, has been forced to take the back seat because of circumstances beyond their control. “As you know the launch of the national launch was supposed to take place last month with the leagues starting early April,’’ he said. ‘‘Unfortunately, everything has been overtaken by events because of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. “But, a lot of work is happening behind the scenes, in terms of preparing for the launch. “As the technical desk, we are just waiting for the instructions from above. Right now, we cannot manoeuvre, in terms of logistics, because nothing is happening on the ground as a result of the coronavirus lockdown measures. ‘‘The teams are not even training, everything has just been temporarily frozen. It is a necessary move but football has been hit hard by the coronavirus.” There were hopes the programme would be launched sometime this month but the Government extended the lockdown period by another two weeks. ZIFA have committed themselves to go back to the basics by reviving junior football across the country. Previous administrations have been accused of failing to give due diligence to the development of football at grassroots level. This has been attributed to Zimbabwe’s failure to make an impact on the international front. Last year, ZIFA committed part of their development funds from FIFA to purchase football gear, which includes training and playing kits, balls, bibs, cones, trophies, magnetic clipboards, gloves and medals. The material has benefitted domestic football at all levels, from the established Premier Soccer League, Women’s Super League, lower divisions, beach soccer, youth football for both boys and girls, beach soccer and Futsal. ZIFA have plans to establish 10 clubs per region, which translates to 40 clubs in all regions for both boys and girls. They want to start with the Under-15 football leagues and then expand the structure by graduating the players to the Under-17 and Under-19 leagues in the next two years. ZIFA are borrowing from successful development models from neighbouring countries, South Africa and Zambia, in the last few years. To ensure effective development of emerging talent, only ZIFA-licensed coaches, who hold CAF C or Level Two badges, will be allowed to take charge of the teams. Harare province chairman, Robert Tembo, said the initiative was good as it will help create a database for all players. ZIFA youth development committee member, and Harare Province vice-chairman Olivarth Guviriro, said the leagues were meant to boost development efforts countrywide. “When the ZIFA board came into office they emphasised on grooming talent, and putting more focus on juniors as a way of creating a feeder for the national teams,’’ he said. “These leagues are the result of that resolution.’’