The Herald Arts Correspondent VERSATILE accapella music outfit, Firm Faith Zimbabwe, has urged  people to look up to God for deliverance in the wake of Covid-19, which has claimed the lives of three people in the country. Group music director Mashall Matsilele urged people to stay at their homes and continue practising hygiene and other precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. He said: “It is true God will protect us, but we shouldn’t be careless with our lives.” Last week, the group shared a video for their song “Musatisiye Tiri Toga”, a plea to God for protection against Covid-19. Firm Faith Zimbabwe is an award-winning accapella group and is well-known for its soul-searching music which brings hope as one of its albums “Whispering Hope” suggests. The group rose to fame in 2010 when it won Harare Got Talent — a talent search show — and ever since has never turned back. Matsilele said it was their responsibility and mandate to bring hope in difficult situations, especially at a time when the country was fighting coronavirus. “If we ever needed the Lord before, surely we need Him now and this is what the song speaks about,” he said. “We need God’s protection from this virus because without him we will perish. “Our role is to show people that there is light at the end of the tunnel and we do it through music.” Matsilele said this was their first project for the year, saying they will be announcing their full 2020 itinerary, which includes foreign visits. The group has performed in several countries in the region, among them South Africa and Zambia. “We have a lot planned for this year, including a new album and tours, but for now much is on hold because of the coronavirus,” said Matsilele. “We are also working on a number of videos for some of our projects.” Firm Faith is a Seventh Day Adventist Church based accapella group. The group’s albums include “Maria”, “Tinevimbo”, “Munenyanya”, “Chikristu MuAfrica”, Single Wanyanya which rocked the Star FM gospel greats for months, “Muumbi wehari”, “Whispering Hope”, “One Day at a Time” and “Amazwi Amangcwele”.