The Herald Herald Reporter South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday announced that his country would ease Covid-19 lockdown restrictions from 1 May, and begin a gradual and phased resumption of economic activity. Bars and shebeens will remain closed at this stage of level four of the lockdown. Announcing this development, President Ramaphosa noted that while the lockdown was probably the most effective means to contain the spread of the coronavirus, it could not be sustained indefinitely. “Our people need to eat,” he said. “They need to earn a living. Companies need to be able to produce and to trade, they need to generate revenue and keep their employees in employment. “We have accordingly decided that beyond Thursday 30 April, we should begin a gradual and phased recovery of economic activity. “We will implement a risk adjusted strategy through which we take a deliberate and cautious approach to the easing of current lockdown restrictions. “We have decided on this approach because there is still much that is unknown about the rate and manner of the spread of the virus within our population. “The action we take now must therefore be measured and incremental.” President Ramaphosa said it was critical to balance the need to resume economic activity with the imperative to contain the virus and save lives. He said South Africa was avoiding a rushed re-opening that could risk a spread, which would need to be followed by another hard lockdown. Said President Ramaphosa: “The range of goods that may be sold will be extended to incorporate certain additional categories. These will be detailed by the relevant Ministers. It is important to note that several restrictions will remain in place regardless of the level of alert for as long as the risk of transmission is present. Bars and shebeens will remain closed.” President Ramaphosa said the South African lockdown would be implemented in five levels with level five encompassing drastic measures required to contain the spread of the virus while level four is that of allowing some activity to resume subject to extreme precautions required to limit community transmission and outbreaks. Level three involved the easing of some restrictions, including on work and social activities, to address a high risk of transmission and level two involves the further easing of restrictions, but the maintenance of physical distancing and restrictions on some leisure and social activities to prevent a resurgence of the virus. On level one most normal activity could resume with precautions and health guidelines followed at all times.