The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cricket have decided to keep alive the tour of Afghanistan scheduled for June despite the global paralysis in the sport caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The Chevrons are supposed to host the Afghans for five T20Is. However, there is still uncertainty as the country is currently under a 21-day lockdown to stem the coronavirus outbreak. Zimbabwe, who rarely have a packed calendar as has been the case this year, were supposed to host Ireland this week in Bulawayo, Afghanistan and then tour Australia between June and July. Zimbabwe Cricket acting managing director, Givemore Makoni, yesterday said the tour by Afghanistan was still on for now and they have devised individual training programmes for the players to stay fit during the lockdown. “We were supposed to be hosting Ireland but that tour has since been rescheduled. But, we have decided to keep alive the proposed tour of Afghanistan. “We will review it when the days draw closer because we don’t know what will happen after the 21 days. “If the lockdown is lifted, we will then embark on our preparations and the team will hold a training camp end of May. “The other available option is to push the series a bit so that we give our teams enough time to prepare,” said Makoni. The coronavirus lockdown has separated Zimbabwe cricket team coach, Lalchand Rajput and his players, by about 10 000km. Rajput is locked up in his home country India during this period while players are scattered across the country. But the Chevrons technical team have made sure they stay fit for competition despite the uncertainty engulfing global sport. “Our fitness trainer and the national team technical staff have been distributing training programmes to all the players in the last two weeks and they are going to be working on that plan. “The provincial coaches have also been doing the same so that players keep fit in the event they are called for duty, “said Makoni. Zimbabwe still have unconfirmed schedules to host India in a three-match One Day International series in August and Netherlands the following month for three ODIs. A tour to Sri Lanka for three ODIs and two T20Is follow in October. World of cricket, like other sporting disciplines, is in complete disarray. Global cricket has come to complete standstill since last month leading to more than 80 days of international bilateral cricket either being postponed or cancelled due to Covid-19. The absence of international cricket will not only hit the pockets of the cricket boards and players but will also create a scheduling nightmare for the future. No one knows how some of the postponed series will be adjusted in the future tour programme of each playing nation. “The FTP is obviously going to be affected. A lot is going on and programmes will either be cancelled or postponed. “So, it’s still early to talk about what will happen to our FTP. I think it will all depend on how much progress would have been made in combating the coronavirus pandemic,” said Makoni. Chevrons coach Rajput, whose side disappointed on their last tour to Bangladesh, has prepared a special programme and workout schedules for the players. “I have sent a message to the Zimbabwe trainer to give them a specific prognosis so that the players can do that from home during current corona crisis,” he told his home media. “Yes, that’s a problem and all players can’t move out of their houses and attend gym outside. But yes, some players do have big houses and bungalows where such facilities are available. “I am not sure where and when the next series our team would play as the programmes for all countries have become uncertain. “We were supposed to play against Afghanistan in May/June and were scheduled to tour Australia in July but let us see when cricket resumes internationally.”