The Herald LONDON. — Cricket has had its fair share of small fish who showed big teeth, over the years. Duncan Fletcher, Zimbabwe, 1983
As England’s coach from 1999 to 2007, Fletcher’s unashamed adoration of “bits-and-pieces” allrounders attracted its fair share of criticism. But as they say, better the devil you know, and in Fletcher’s case he has first-hand knowledge of how single-mindedness allied to a modicum of skill can land the biggest prizes. At the age of 34 he captained Zimbabwe in their very first international fixture, against Australia in the 1983 World Cup, and starred with both bat and ball to secure one of the biggest upsets of all time. With his side in some strife at 94 for 5, Fletcher guided the tail with an unbeaten 69 and then, defending a decent total of 239, grabbed each of the first four wickets in a probing 11-over spell of medium pace. Despite a brisk half-century from Rod Marsh, Australia fell 13 runs short. Fletcher meanwhile added an unbeaten 71 in Zimbabwe’s third match, against the favourites West Indies, but he was unable to secure another victory. John Davison, Canada, 2003
An Aussie offspinner with a short-lived career for Victoria and South Australia, Davison was born in British Columbia and propelled the country of his birth into World Cup folklore in Centurion in 2003 with an astonishing onslaught against a stunned West Indian team. An average of 8.15 from 42 innings for Victoria, and an average batting position of No. 9, gave no clue as to the mayhem that he was capable of unleashing, especially as his previous three innings in the tournament had yielded just 39 runs. His half-century arrived from just 30 deliveries, with six fours and three sixes, his century from 67 — at the time the fastest in World Cup history — and it was completed with his sixth six, a mighty swipe over long-on off Merv Dillon, in just the 19th over. Canada at that stage were 140 for 1, a competitive Twenty20 total, but sadly Davison’s dismissal – to a remarkable back-pedalling pluck from Vasbert Drakes – signalled the end of the ride. Brian Lara, Wavell Hinds and Ramnaresh Sarwan hunted down a target of 203 in just 20.3 overs. Nevertheless the day belonged to Davison. “I guess playing for Canada gives me opportunities that I wouldn’t really get in Australia,” he demurred afterwards. “Like opening the batting for example.” Tariq Iqbal, Kenya, 1996
Portly and bespectacled, and comically inept with the gloves, Iqbal’s claim to eternal fame was the catch that dismissed Brian Lara in Pune in March 1996, where Kenya produced a scarcely credible victory over West Indies  The Guardian noted that Iqbal was “wearing a blue headband and a double chin”, and added that he had dropped so many deliveries and conceded so many byes that his own fielders had resorted to laughter rather than fury. However, he got the one that mattered right. Lara, in a curiously frenzied assault, launched into a back-foot smear and Iqbal somehow clung onto a thick edge. “The ball sank somewhere into his nether regions,” reported the Daily Telegraph, “and the gloves clutched desperately, trying to locate it. Then, glory be, it reappeared in his hands and was raised aloft in triumph and relief.” Sultan Zarawani, UAE, 1996
A multi-multi-millionaire, Zarawani was the only native-born member among the expats and mercenaries masquerading as the UAE national squad at the 1996 World Cup. He probably owned more cars than he managed international runs (26), and possibly more brain cells as well, judging by his ill-advised confrontation with Allan Donald in Rawalpindi. “Al, this guy’s asking for it,” snarled Pat Symcox as Zarawani strode in to bat, helmetless, with his side at 68 for 6 chasing 321. And so Donald obliged. His very first ball was a bouncer that pinned his target direct on the head. As Zarawani staggered away, his sun hat all but flopped onto the bails. But he picked himself up, dusted himself down, and struggled on for six more run-less deliveries before Brian McMillan had him caught at mid-off by Hansie Cronje. — Cricinfo