The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo and Kundai Marunya It was on the eve of the birth of a new country, Zimbabwe, when reggae music legend Bob Marley gave a befitting performance at a fully packed Rufaro Stadium in Harare. Marley played against the well set ambiance of a revolutionary spirit hanging in the air and a victory celebration that marked the end of colonialism. This was Marley’s first time to set foot on the continent so he made sure to leave a lasting impression, playing songs from his new album titled “Survival”, which was pregnant with revolutionary messages. This is the album that carried the song “Zimbabwe”, which subsequently became a hit with the newly captured reggae lovers. With a heart-catching performance, a seed of reggae music was planted and now germinates in many hearts. Among the newly captured reggae lovers was a 13-year-old Anthony Amon who would grow up to be part of a seasoned reggae band Transit Crew. Now 53, Liber, as Amon is affectionately known in the music circles, still remembers the celebratory atmosphere on the day. “We were still young; I was 13 years old then, but my love for reggae was influenced by Bob Marley. He actually turned Zimbabwe into a reggae country,” he said. “I remember the music was loud and clear from Rufaro Stadium in Mbare to Ardbennie.” Though anxious, Liba failed to meet the person who eventually influenced his career path. “I was part of the youths who were meant to do the mass displays that noon but it was cancelled last minute because we weren’t well prepared,” he said. “Attending the show was another challenge, it was held at night and we were very young. “I didn’t know much about the genre but after Bob Marley’s performance, reggae went viral. I could sing all his songs from “Uprising”.” Marley’s visit went on to influence the founding of many reggae outfits in the country. “I was nine years old at the time so I did not attend the show,” said veteran producer and lead guitarist Clive ‘Mono’ Mukundu. “I do remember the hype and euphoria was everywhere and immediately afterwards many reggae bands emerged among them Nhasi Tafara, Chadoka and Chirwa which was led by Isaac Chirwa and of course Transit Crew sometime in 1987.” From the early reggae outfits, only Transit Crew managed to stay the course. A brainchild of United Kingdom-based drummer Munya Brown, the band’s founding members were Munyaradzi Nyemba on bass, Liba on keyboards, with South African Themba Jacobs and Mozambican Jerry Emmanuel on guitars. Emmanuel Frank and Culture Tee were on vocals. “Our first release was a single titled “Zim Gals Look So Fine” which did very well on the local charts,” said Liba, the band’s only surviving founding member. “We then released three more  albums called “Sounds Playing”,“Carry the Message” and “Money”. Earning them a six months long tour of Japan in 1991 during which they played at the World Music Festival. Transit Crew has been credited for mentoring many young reggae musicians including Mannex Motsi, Mic Inity and Junior Bantan. “Right now I have managed to group up with some youngsters, with elder Issac Chirwa on guitar and popular radio personality Dennis Wilson on vocals,” said Liba. “Our young crop includes Cello Culture on vocals, Master Pablo Nakappa on Bass, Adamsky on drums and Lenny Sithole on second keyboards.” Liba believes the 80s were the best times to live. “The 1980s were the best time ever and it will take great composers, lyricists and producers to match that brilliance,” he said. Reggae influences can also be heard in the sound of many musicians including some songs by the late Dr Oliver Mtukudzi, Marshall Munhumumwe, and John Chibadura. Even in gospel music, reggae beats and influence are popular with almost every musician, borrowing from the genre every now and again. The country’s most popular musicians in the present generation, Jah Prayzah and Winky D built their bases on a reggae foundation, only to spread their wings to other music influences.