The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter GIANTS Dynamos have become the latest high-profile local football club to join the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic. The Glamour Boys have chosen to drive awareness campaigns. Zimbabwe, along with most of the countries across the world, is in a national lockdown as authorities battle to contain the spread of the epidemic. Several football clubs, including those in South Africa, have since launched initiatives aimed at fighting the pandemic. And Dynamos have seen it fit to join forces with other international partners to battle the pandemic. Team spokesperson, Tinashe Farawo, yesterday told The Herald they were due to release a coronavirus awareness video next week. “The coronavirus epidemic is real and ought to be given the special treatment it deserves,” Farawo said. “The fight against the disease is everybody’s responsibility. People have to support the authorities in fighting the epidemic.’’ “As Dynamos Football Club, we know that our business is solely dependent on a healthy society.’’ ‘‘Our business has been impacted upon big time and we know that the sooner this is contained, the better for our business.’’ “This is one of the many reasons why we have decided to join hands with some partners to spread awareness about the epidemic.’’ “As we speak, we have already done a video jingle, which will be released next week. Our players, as well as other stakeholders, feature in that video. It’s all about awareness.” Farawo said the team wouldn’t rush into doing any fund-raising initiatives but, instead, saw it fit to use their influence to spread the word. “Our power is in numbers and, since we are one of the biggest teams in the world, this has driven us to choose the awareness route.’’ ‘‘We are urging every member of society to play their role in complementing authorities’ efforts to stop the spread of the virus.’’ “Depending on the time the coronavirus scourge will be upon us, we will always revise our intervention strategies but, certainly, we have to play a role in the fight against the ailment.” The Glamour Boys join rivals Highlanders, who have since launched a crowd-funding initiative aimed at raising funds for one of the coronavirus isolation centres in Bulawayo. Bosso have already raised a significant amount. “The crowd-funding initiative is aimed at raising money to be given to one of Bulawayo’s coronavirus isolation centres. ‘‘We call upon people, and other football clubs, to join hands with us. Together, we will win the war against this pandemic,” said club spokesperson Ronald Moyo. While Bosso are making progress, DeMbare have sought to play their role by carrying out awareness campaigns. Videos of Dynamos players, including newboys Juan Mutudza and King Nadolo, talking about the scourge, have since gone viral after being uploaded on the team’s digital platforms. The start of the 2020 Premiership season was postponed due to the pandemic.