The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE Government, through the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Art and Recreation, has commended the sporting fraternity for adhering to the national lockdown guidelines meant to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus epidemic. The country is currently in a 21-day lockdown as authorities have moved to minimise the effects of the scourge which has since claimed over 103 000 people worldwide. All sporting activities have been put on hold with athletes confined to indoor training as their coaches make online follow-ups. Several arrests have been made by the Zimbabwe Republic Police for defying lockdown guidelines but there are no reported cases of indiscipline from those in the sports industry. And the Deputy Minister of Youth, Sport, Art and Recreation, Tino Machakaire, is an impressed lot. “The fact that all sportspersons as well as those involved in administration of the industry have shown a great deal of respect for lockdown guidelines is quite encouraging,” said Machakaire. “Sport and discipline go hand in hand. One cannot be a sportsperson without discipline. It is indeed this kind of behaviour the sportspeople have displayed during a time like this which makes all difference. “I am very happy to learn through the media that some of the Premiership football players are doing one or two things to keep in shape while at home. “I am very happy to realise a Super League rugby player is doing all he/she can to make sure they stay fit at home. “It is an encouraging sign to read about coaches, nutritionists and fitness trainers making use of digital technology to make valuable follow ups with their players. “I would like to applaud that spirit. Of course, these are trying times and we all know that normally, the Premier Soccer League season would have been in full throttle, the rugby league, netball, darts, pool, basketball, volleyball and many other sport codes would have been underway. But, not when things are like this.” Machakaire, who runs one of the biggest grassroots sports tournaments in the country through his Tinmac Foundation in Wedza, has also announced an adjustment to that tournament. The annual tournament, which involves football, netball, basketball, volleyball, cycling and other traditional sports like nhodo, hwishu and raka-raka, bottle games from primary schools up to social clubs, normally runs from April to August. But the event has been suspended until health officials give their thumbs up for large gatherings. The Tinmac Foundation tournament was sponsored to the tune of $300 000 last year. “We were supposed to launch the tournament this month but we have to wait until things normalise. For now, we are encouraging everyone to stay indoors. “Depending on health officials’ advice, we will see how we slot the dates but the tournament will be bigger and better. There is nothing we can do at the moment as we have to follow the health guidelines. Human life is all that matters,” Machakaire said. St. Banabas Ushe and Gumbonzvanda are the defending football champions for primary and secondary schools while Goto Ward won the accolade in the social category.