The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea’s star Willian has warned English Premier League football bosses they are in danger of bringing the game into ­disrepute — and even says Liverpool aren’t concerned about the title right now. Top-flight chiefs hope to ­restart the season on June 8 ­following Friday’s meeting – but Willian insists the English ­spectacle will be a shadow of its former self if they press ahead with plans to stage games in empty stadiums. He said: “Football without fans is no fun. I’ve heard that at we could return with closed gates, with no public in the ­stadiums. If it is necessary and if we must play for the good of all, it must be done.” And the Brazilian international says he has no interest in returning to the pitch until the health crisis is over — and that his view will be shared by the champions-elect. “Even Liverpool players themselves, if you ask them, will say that they are concerned about their own health and that of their families. Not with the English title,” he added. The 31-year-old is out of contract at the end of the season, but has already said that he would be willing to temporarily extend his stay at Stamford Bridge when the season is resumed. Willian, speaking to Brazilian publication Folha, said: “The first thing I do when I put my head on the pillow is to think about the situation. “I reflect and thank God that my family and I are healthy. You may think that I am a football player and I am well, but this virus affects everyone, regardless of who you are. “Money does not buy your health and many people have died from this disease. “What I can do is ask everyone to be well and to obey the recommendations of doctors and health professionals. If that happens, let’s get out of this. “Until then, we have to take care of ourselves and the people we love. This is a moment that worries me a lot. “They say that after this there will be unemployment and this is the perspective that worries me in Brazil. How will the economy be? What about people’s jobs? “But at the same time, I believe that this is not the time to think about it, but about health. “Nothing else. It is the most important of all. If you are well and healthy, you can work. If you’re sick, you don’t do anything.” And he has also made it clear that his fitness levels have dropped dramatically in the month since the world went into lockdown in a bid to contain the coronavirus pandemic. And as the biggest league in the world looks to avoid a devastating £1.3billion financial hit, Willian, speaking from his family home in Brazil, said: “My routine is upside down, totally different from what I was used to. “A football player lives a lot away from home on trips, matches, training. They are always active. I keep in touch with people in the club via WhatsApp. We have a group in which we receive information, training sheets are placed and we send messages telling them what we have been doing. “I have kept the training routine every day because we do not know when or under what circumstances the championship will return. “I run and do some functional training, but it is not the same thing. One day we are in the field training and the next, alone at home. I don’t even have much room for exercise, but I have to keep in shape. “It is not easy to not be able to do what you like. I got used to playing every middle and weekend at a high level.” — The Mirror.