The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Gospel artiste Sabastian Magacha is hosting his “Good Friday- Easter Praise and Worship” show on social media, where he has invited fellow musicians and preachers to join. The show, which will run for 1 hour 30 minutes, will be on his Facebook and Instagram pages, running under the theme “Good Friday Worship Experience”. Musicians who have agreed to the call include Pastor Stanley Gwanzura, affectionately known as Pastor Gee, South Africa-based Takesure Zamar, Tembalami, Fungisai Zvakavapano –Mashavave, Jefferson Muserera, Pastor Stan Mutemererwa (of the Gospel Trumpet fame), United Kingdom-based Beaullah Machiri and Stephaine Chiyangwa. In an interview with The Herald Arts and Culture, Magacha said he had coordinated with other musicians and speakers and was ready to give it a go. “The 21-day lockdown means that many of the Christian community will not be able to worship in church, but will be in their home,” he said. “Easter is going on as planned. The only difference is that we are going to be doing services and praise and worship via digital platforms. So, I thought why not host the event from my house and I spoke to various fellow artists who agreed to this. “The show will be on all of my social media pages. Each musician or speaker will be given time slot to perform or preach from the comfort of their homes through social media. They will have access to my password on my page, hence everything will go according to plan from 10am.” Magacha said he will have an acoustic band set up with few members. He said the artists will only be live on social media pages for 10 minutes. “I am going to start the show, performing my greatest hits,” Magacha said. “Those performing will have to show their creativity on their presentation as each has a 10-minute slot. They just have to do even a medley because fans will not have the time to listen to full songs apart from listening to the word. We want to maximise the time we have.” The “Ridza Bhosvo” hit-maker, said he had shelved all the projects he had in plan because of the lockdown. “I am home and put on hold going to the studio,” said Magacha. “I am busy writing songs and will also launch my video of the single Yawe online. People need to understand and know that Covid-19 is real, hence they should adhere to the precaution measures put aside by the Government. “Please stay at home and observe social distance. I have put my plans on hold because some of them required to have a lot of people. Do not despair and panic during these trying times.” Magacha said he would resume shows after the lockdown.