The Herald DHAKA. — From June 1999 to February 2004, Bangladesh had racked up some unwanted records — most consecutive defeats in international cricket, which included most consecutive Test defeats. It was the longest winless streak in that format, and the most consecutive ODI defeats. Bangladesh won by eight runs. It was their first ODI win in five years and their first international win since becoming a Test-playing nation in 2000. Now under a new captain, Bangladesh were hoping for better days. Habibul Bashar, Habibul Bashar, Bangladesh captain: The Zimbabwe team was far ahead of us in those days, that too in their conditions. We had already lost the Test series. I made a pair in my first Test as captain. While we waited for the rain to stop in Bulawayo [where the first two ODIs had to be abandoned], coach Dav Whatmore was trying to instil the mentality of trying to win rather than thinking about playing well and losing – he would tell us that there was no glory in that. Mohammad Ashraful, Bangladesh batsman: One day on the tour, I was telling Shuvro bhai [journalist Utpal Shuvro] that the Bangladesh public treats us as heroes even though we don’t win any matches. We have such a wonderful following despite our results. He told us: why don’t you win one game and see what happens. In the third ODI in Harare, Whatmore decided to open the batting with 20-year-old middle-order batsman Alok Kapali in the hope that he could take advantage of the field restrictions early in the innings (two fielders were allowed outside the 30-yard circle in the first 15 overs then) and help Bangladesh put up a total that their industrious bowling attack could defend. Bashar: It was out of desperation that we decided to send Alok Kapali as an opener. He could play over the top and handle pace. We told him he could open in all five matches of the series even if he didn’t score. We wanted to try things. Whatmore was a great planner. He knew that in order to win, we needed runs on the board in the first 15 overs. “When that partnership was broken, we smelt a win. Our body language completely changed. We started fielding like tigers. I realised at the time that this is what they call a winning mentality.’’ But in the sixth over, Kapali was caught behind off Douglas Hondo for a 21-ball 9. The score soon slid to 20 for 2, and Bashar, leading his side for the first time in an ODI, was joined at the crease by 20-year-old Rajin Saleh. Tatenda Taibu, Zimbabwe wicketkeeper-batsman: Douglas Hondo was getting onto the scene at that time. He was bowling well that day, getting the ball to move off the seam more than our other bowlers. After riding out Heath Streak’s first spell, Bashar and Saleh added 114 runs for the third wicket, a rare big partnership in those days for Bangladesh. While Bashar was the accomplished batsman in the side, Saleh’s reputation as a steadfast top-order presence started to grow after this innings. Bashar: It was the usual Harare wicket. It had enough for the fast bowlers. Rajin and I decided we would look out for Streak and [Ray] Price, their most dangerous bowlers, and target Hondo and [Blessing] Mahwire. We told each other we needed to bat for long. — Cricinfo.