The Herald Noel Munzabwa Special Correspondent
YESTERDAY marked nine years since Zimbabwean football was rocked by the news of the death of the then FC Platinum head coach Benjamin Moyo. He was just 39. Moyo died in a freak swimming pool accident at a motel outside Shurugwi during his team’s training camp ahead of a league fixture. I still remember the day his brother Benedict broke the news to me. “Have you heard the news? Benjie has died, he drowned this morning while in camp . . . ” I had grown close to Mbuzi, as we called each other, since the days he was assistant to Rahman Gumbo at Highlanders. In 2004, he guided Chapungu. He had taught me how to braai a whole chicken during some of the numerous after-match errands, which were often laced with mini-coaching clinics, and he played out Soul Brothers hits. After hearing the news about the tragedy, we decided to go to Shurugwi. I was joined by Benedict and the then Central Region boss, Patrick Hokonya, on the trip. On arrival, we were met by a grief-struck Nathan Shoko, who was the club president, and his executive. Reality struck — Zimbabwean football had been robbed of a youthful football technical mind. “Benjie was a good swimmer, how could he drown in such a shallow pool, I don’t understand?” said Benedict. Noone answered. Benjie had wanted to drill a borehole at his rural home in Bulilima’s Empandeni Mission in Plumtree. He wanted the use the water from the borehole to water a nearby ground, and give his father Paul a perfect retirement package, through nurturing football talent. Born in 1972 at Gwai River Mine, Benjamin did his primary education at Torwood in Redcliff before proceeding to St Augustine, in Hwange, for his secondary education. He later enrolled for an apprenticeship in bricklaying at Ziscosteel before turning to coaching where he attained his first certificate alongside the late Willard Mashinkila-Khumalo. His journey took him to Highlanders, Amazulu and Chapungu. He also had a coaching stint in Botswana before going to the United Kingdom where he attained a UEFA licence. He then returned home. Benjie was laid to rest in his rural home in Empandeni, Plumtree, leaving behind his wife Elizabeth and three children — Bheki, Thandi and Patience. His mother, as fate would have it, had been buried at the same cemetery just a month earlier.