The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
TALENTED young Zimbabwean football players are likely to have a direct route to Europe following the appointment of former Dynamos skipper Justice Majabvi as an agent for a Germany-based sports management consultancy. WSM Marketing and Management, who have managed the affairs of players such as Brazilian legend Rivaldo and former Nigerian internationals Victor Ikpeba, Julius Aghahowa and Ifeanyi Udeze, confirmed Majabvi’s appointment last week. The midfielder yesterday told The Herald that he was excited by the “professional recognition” and the opportunities it presents to the talented Zimbabwean players. “It really means a lot to me. My roles are actually many. I will be doing scouting, facilitating player negotiations and also managing them. “And, of course, I will also be looking at coaches and managers, not only in Zimbabwe but around the world. “WSM is world over but it is based in Germany and clients are from different countries.’’ “The advantage (to Zimbabwe) is that, those matching the European standard, will go to Europe directly,” said Majabvi. The 36-year old has been keeping a low profile since he hung his football boots about four years ago. Majabvi had a fairly long career, spanning over a decade, across three continents. He now hopes to go into football management. He will be hoping for more success as he looks to venture into the world of player management. “I’m here at home, I have been doing and pushing my own private business. I have been studying too. ‘’Also, I was recently appointed as the Technical Director at Redcross Academy,” he said. Majabvi’s task will be to identify talented players and football coaches in Zimbabwe and beyond. WSM Marketing and Management represents have a wide base of clients who include international footballers and managers plying their trade across Europe. “WSM Marketing & Management welcomes Mr Justice Majabvi as our agent/advisor in Zimbabwe to our agency,” WSM said in a statement. “Justice Majabvi played with the A-national team of Zimbabwe! ‘‘He has the experience as a player in Austria with Linzer ASK, in Zimbabwe with Dynamos FC & Lancashire Steel FC, in Vietnam with Hai Phong FC & Khatoco Khán Hoà!’’ ‘‘Justice will bring his experience into his work.” A product of the Copa Coca-Cola Schools football tournament, Majabvi begun his professional football career at the now defunct Lancashire Steel at the turn of the millennium. But he gained popularity after moving to Dynamos, where he won a League and Cup double in 2007. He featured in the Champions League with DeMbare leading the side to a respectable semi-final finish. The former Warriors player got his breakthrough move to Europe when he was signed by Austrian Bundesliga side, Lask Linz, on a three-year contract in 2008. After his contract expired, Majabvi moved to Vietnam where he played for Khatoco Khánh Ho and Vicem Hai Phong FC from 2011 to 2015 before ending his career at Tanzanian side Simba SC in 2017.