The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS have urged local Premiership clubs, including rivals Dynamos and CAPS United, to set aside their on-the-field rivalry and unite in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic threatening their very existence. All sporting activities have been put on hold with the Premiership season, which was supposed to kick-off last month, postponed by at least two months. Players have been forced to train on their own at their homes as the country is on a 21-day lockdown. And Bosso, the oldest football club in the country, have taken a leading role, spearheading awareness campaigns on the pandemic. They have since launched a crowd funding initiative to raise funds for one of Bulawayo’s coronavirus isolation centres, Ekusileni Hospital. Highlanders communications manager, Ronald Moyo, yesterday said the ailment has demonstrated how football is dependent upon a healthy community. “We call upon the entire football community to put aside temporary differences that usually manifest on the pitch, and terraces, during soccer matches and support this initiative against the coronavirus outbreak. “We need to join hands with actors already involved in the fight against this scourge and unite for a common good — victory against this pandemic,’’ said Moyo. He said his players, who have a significant chunk of followers, have been posting solidarity messages leading to the “#stayathome campaign” on the team’s digital platforms. “We have been engaged in awareness campaigns but we have decided to scale up our efforts and do crowd-funding to equip Ekusileni Hospital, the bigger of the two isolation centres identified in Bulawayo,’’ said Moyo. “We are doing this because the situation is bad. “It requires collective efforts. In football terms, Highlanders is home to millions of Zimbabweans across the country and beyond. “We are, however, not only worried about the health of those who support Highlanders but the Zimbabwean population in general. “I think the situation right now clearly shows how football is dependent on a healthy society. “We would like to urge the business community and individuals to join us in this journey. It’s not about Highlanders because this facility will accommodate Covid-19 patients of diverse backgrounds.” Bosso players are working on individual training programmes drafted by their coach, Mark Harrison, who has been directly affected by the coronavirus epidemic. Fortunately, Harrison’s brother, who was diagnosed of the ailment in Norway, is on his way to full recovery. Moyo urged teams in the Premiership to make maximum use of their digital platforms to share useful information about the disease which has claimed thousands of people across the globe. Black Rhinos have also started a vigorous social media campaign to conscentise people on the importance of social distancing, as well as other measures, to contain the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, the chief executive of Team Zimbabwe UK, Marshall Gore, has issued a rallying cry in the fight against coronavirus. “I want to reach out and make an appeal towards COVID-19 for Zimbabwe,’’ Gore said in a recorded message on Twitter. “But, firstly, I want to thank all of you that have been involved in different initiatives in supporting our Government and our health care system with relief towards COVID-19. “I want to thank all businesses, all the key stakeholders, civic societies and the churches, individual volunteers, other organisations, even international organisations, that have come to our help as a country. “Zimbabwe, I want to thank you for the resilience that you have shown and, most importantly, I want to thank you for the courage you have shown in supporting each other.’’