The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE coronavirus pandemic might just have dented CAPS United midfielder Blessing Sarupinda’s dream move to Portugal. Sarupinda was forced to abort a 30-day trial period with the Portuguese third-tier side, Sporting Clube, hardly a week after his arrival in the European country last month. He has since been registered by the Green Machine for the delayed 2020 Premiership football season. With doubts lingering over air travel, in the next few months, Sarupinda could miss the European registration deadline in winter. In any case, the midfielder is supposed to impress the suitors for a period of 30 days before he can be allowed to join them, making it very tricky in terms of the time frames. Depending on his form, and the team’s willingness to have him around, the opportunity for Sarupinda to play in Portugal could as well be over. The collapse of the move could also be detrimental to CAPS United’s commercialisation thrust. Makepekepe have embarked on a commercial revolution centred on running the club as a business, with the transfer of players, especially to Europe, a big part of that plan. Sarupinda’s transfer was also set to see all the other players at Makepekepe benefit from the deal. CAPS United vice-president Nhamo Tutisani has, however, remained confident Sarupinda will still make it in Portugal after the coronavirus pandemic is over. “Yes, the coronavirus outbreak has delayed Blessing Sarupinda’s move to Europe. He was set to undergo a month’s assessment at that third-tier club in Portugal and he actually touched base. ‘’But, that was before it was discovered the coronavirus was spreading like veld fire and, as a precaution, Sarupinda had to return home before undergoing the trials. “We don’t know when things will return to normal but we are in touch with that club and they still need his services. ‘’As soon as things normalise, he will go back to Portugal for the trials. Of course, there may be complications, in terms of the season that side, but we are confident he will go and make it. “Remember our commercial thrust and our new incentives policy. Whenever a player is transferred, others will have to benefit from that deal for they would have played a part in that particular player’s progress in his career.” Makepekepe have also sealed a partnership with Aces Youth Soccer Academy, where Sarupinda was nurtured, coming in as a reliable nursery, Northern Region Division One side Black Mambas and Mt Pleasant High School. Mambas and CAPS will be involved in exchange programmes and already players, including Kudzi Nyamupfukudza, will be attached to the lower division side to have game time.  Mt Pleasant School will be responsible for developing young players.