The Herald Herald Reporter
THE Chinese government has assured African countries that their citizens are safe and not being discriminated following reports that everyone arriving from outside China at the huge southern city of Guangzhou has to be quarantined for 14 days. Guangzhou is a major trading and manufacturing hub, attracting many merchants from around the world, including Africa. China has effectively beaten Covid-19 by enforcing strict movement and quarantine regulations on its own citizens and foreigners. Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Dr Sibusiso Moyo yesterday said since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Zimbabwe had maintained close contact with the People’s Republic of China, especially concerning the well-being of its nationals living, working and studying in China. “Following reports of Africans being targeted in China and subjected to mass Covid-19 testing, arbitrary quarantine and forced evictions, the ministry has been in constant contact with the Ambassador of Zimbabwe in Beijing as well as the Chinese Ambassador in Harare,” he said in a statement. “The Government of Zimbabwe appreciates the measures undertaken by the Chinese government to address issues raised in the reports. “We welcome the assurances given by the Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chen Xiaodong, to the group of African Ambassadors on 12, April 2020, that our nationals will be treated equally, without discrimination and that their safety and welfare will always be guaranteed.” Zimbabwean nationals in Guangzhou and China as a whole, Minister Moyo said, are urged to continue to respect and abide by the laws of the People’s Republic of China, including the containment measures. “As always, the Embassy in Beijing remains open to attend to any concerns. At this juncture, the Government of Zimbabwe wishes to express gratitude to our Chinese counterparts for their efforts in ensuring the safety and welfare of Zimbabwe nationals at the critical stages of the pandemic.”