The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Editor FC Platinum defender, Gift Bello, says the coronavirus lockdown has not only affected his football career but the other business projects he also pursues away from the game. The 35-year-old appears to be planning for life after football after investing in a cleaning services company and printing business as he approaches the twilight of his career. But the current situation has been a setback to both his football career and business ambitions. “Besides football, I have some other projects that I am into but, because of the lockdown, everything is down at the moment,’’ he said. “I have a cleaning services company that I formed last year and it specialises in cleaning offices, supermarkets and everywhere that cleaning services are needed, for example after events. “Unfortunately I don’t have any contracts now. “I also do T-shirt printing. “We print jerseys and all but the printing machine is lying idle for now. However, I do assist my wife selling clothes online.’’ A 21-day national lockdown, which was extended yesterday, was effected as part of measures to contain the novel coronavirus that has infected over 2.5 million people globally. It has killed over 160 000 in the last four months. Bello, who has a won six league titles in his career, is still looking forward to more silverware. He won three league titles with Dynamos between 2011 and 2013 and again with FC Platinum in the last three seasons. But, the start of the 2020 season has been delayed and players were sent home to train on their own during the lockdown. “The essence of the lockdown is to avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease. This is a global crisis so I have been at home in Zvishavane,’’ he said. “We need to respect advice from the health experts by staying indoors, and spending time with family. There is no need to walk around aimlessly.’’ Bello, who turns 36 next month, is happy by the levels of fitness he has maintained. “I have managed to stay fit because I do personal workouts at home. As sportsmen, we ought to keep ourselves in the right condition,’’ he said. “I have been following the training plan devised for us by our coaches. “My lifestyle hasn’t changed during the lockdown. I also watch my diet very closely because I have to maintain my weight and keep it the same level it was before the lockdown.’’