The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
WARRIORS forward Knox Mutizwa has seen his profile grow in the South African Premiership football where he has joined a clique of the most valuable foreign players. Mutizwa, who is currently in the race for the Golden Boot award, is one of the three highly-ranked Zimbabweans based in South Africa on the transfer market. The 26-year-old was featured by South Africa’s KickOff Magazine on the list of 14 Most Valuable foreign players, along with compatriots Evans Rusike and Khama Billiat, who remains the overall most valuable player in South Africa. The German online Transfermarket.com has placed a €750 000 tag on the Warriors marksman, which roughly translates to R15,2 million. Mutizwa has had a promising season with 11 goals to his credit for modest side Golden Arrows when the league was forced to stop due to the coronavirus outbreak. The 2015 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Golden Boot winner with 14 goals, has been in terrific form and is only three goals behind the league’s leading goalscorer, Gabadinho Mhango of Orlando Pirates. The former Highlanders man has also attracted interest from Europe. While Mutizwa’s value has been increasing, compatriot Rusike has had a difficult season with SuperSport United and this has contributed negatively on his value. Rusike dropped from €800 000 in 2019 to €750 000 this year. Rusike struggled with injuries earlier in the season and has two goals to his name and one assist from 14 appearances. Warriors poster boy Billiat sits at the top in the ABSA Premiership despite also experiencing a dip in market value. Valued at €1,9m (R38,6 million), Billiat is not only the most expensive foreigner, but is currently estimated to be the most valuable player in the PSL. South Africa’s Thapelo Morena of Sundowns, who is valued at R30,6 million, is the second most expensive. In comparison to his Chiefs teammates, Billiat is worth almost double the second most valuable player at Naturena right now (Itumeleng Khune, €1m). This is despite the Zimbabwean experiencing a disappointing season which saw him shedding some of his market value. Billiat hit the €2 million mark at his peak last year. Among the most valuable foreign players in South Africa is Namibian Deon Hotto of Bidvest (R24,4m), Sundowns’ Ugandan goalkeeper Denis Onyango (R20,3m), Zambia’s Mwape Musonda of Black Leopards (R19,3m), Malawian Limbikani Mzava of Highlands Park (R17,3m), Mauricio Affonso of Uruguay (R16,2m) and the leading goal scorer Mhango (R15,2m).