The Herald THERE have been some great games for the Warriors but there are some which have remained embedded in the memories of the fans. It’s now 40 years of battles for the Warriors, in Independent Zimbabwe, and some games still have the fans in Dreamland. Gilbert Handara “Zim 4-1 (win) against South Africa in their first competitive game from isolation at National Sports Stadium. Against all predictions, Peter, Rahman, Willard Khumalo, Adam and company had the better of Dr Khumalo entourage. Wonderful goals from Rahman and Peter.’’ Bright Mlingo “Replay, World Cup qualifier Egypt vs Zim 0-0 1993, it’s the only delayed match I have ever watched and my heart was pounding as if the match was live.’’ @LMuradzikwa “Watched most Warriors games, both home and away, difficult to say this was better than the other. Nonetheless, I still reminisce the recent 3-1 win over minnows Somalia late last year, when all hope had been lost after conceding that away goal and we ended up scoring two important last-gasp goals.’’ George Chigwaya “Zimbabwe vs Cameroon at the National Sports Stadium when Vitalis Takawira scored three goals.’’ Arthur Choga “People were not sure what to expect from Zimbabwe (in the 4-1 win over South Africa). Our preparations were not the best and this was SOUTH AFRICA! Trash-talking with Screamer Tshabalala and his shoe-shine piano, and all those stars we used to see in Drum magazine. January 1995, the 4-1 over Cameroon at the National Sports Stadium was also special. Vitalis Takawira hat-trick and that phenomenal goal by Paul Gundani.’’ Steven Africa “The battle in Lyon, France, against the Pharaohs who had Hani Ramzy, Magdi Tolba and Hossam Hassan in their ranks. Zimbabwe had millions of players, some of course, were playing on home soil back in Zim and only 11 visible on the turf.’’ Fortune Mushangwe “1992 — Zimbabwe 2 vs Egypt 1, FIFA World Cup at the National Sports Stadium. Peter Nsukuzonke Ndlovu scored a grounder against the Mighty Pharoahs near the edge of the D Area.’’ Solomon Chingono “Zimbabwe’s 2-1 victory over Algeria at the AFCON of 2004 has to be the stand-out (game) for me. Two well-taken goals from Adam ‘“damski” Ndlovu and Joel “Dubai” Luphahla making the difference. Not enough to see us through though after the Egypt and Cameroon damages.’’ Tatenda Munenge “When we beat Algeria 2-1 at AFCON finals. Gidiza was a marvel to watch in midfield, goals by Luphahla and Adam Ndlovu.’’ Chief Chamangwiza “1991 — Zimbabwe (U-23) 5; Tunisia (U-23) 2; Featuring — Coach Fabisch, Nelson Bandura, Benjamin Nkonjera, Peter Ndlovu, Kennedy Nagoli, Ian Matondo, Silver Chigwenje, Agent Sawu.’’ Terence Kandima “Zim thrashing Cameron 4-1 in a Nations Cup qualifier stands out for me with Vitalis “Digital” Takawira at his brilliant best, scoring a hat-trick in 1995. Zim vs SA was great in quality, Cameron was a more dangerous opponent for me and taming them like that was huge.’’ Solomon Mutizwa “Zimbabwe vs Angola. A mid-week evening game that we won 1-0. With John Phiri and Peter Ndlovu combining well late in the game to win.’’ Tsungirai Muringai “Cameroon 5, Zimbabwe 3, AFCON 2004, what an incredible performance by the Warriors although we lost the match.’’ Hatie Muzira “Cameroon 5 – 3 Zimbabwe, AFCON 2004 Tunisia, that was a blockbuster of a match, my best ever.’’ Rue Ashe “My favourite game as well. Considering the Cameroon team at that time, that 5-3 was like a win for me. I still remember Esrom Nyandoro’s goal Zim’s third goal like it was yesterday.’’ Luckson Midzi “Zimbabwe 2 Senegal 1, at National Sports Stadium in Harare, Peter Ndlovu wanted to score a tribute for Benjamin Nkonjera and he did.’’ Taurai Mbodza “April 1991, Zimbabwe 4 Malawi 0 Africa Cup of Nations Qualifier. Moses Chunga and Willard Mawiii Khumalo at their best.’’ Andrew Mupembe “Zimbabwe 1, Mali 0, National Sports Stadium. There was one Dramman Coulibally and Seydou Keita, thanks to Llyod Chitembwe nekutsika Keita. Pange pakaipa. Dazzy Kapenya had to foil one attack by literally getting the ball from Keita’s face with his boot.’’ Mike Madoda “Zimbabwe 4, South Africa 1, the shoe-shine piano played horribly out of tune and the Warriors lit up the National Sports Stadium with a performance that captured the imagination. Peter Ndlovu was simply scintillating and that Cruyff-turn he pulled off was magical, casting a spell on a mesmerised Bafana.’’ Thomas Sweswe “Zimbabwe vs Egypt at the National Sports Stadium and Warriors won 2-1, I was young and managed to go and watch the game and the Dream Team.’’ Munyaradzi Jiri “Zim 4, SA 1 was a great match. The skill by Peter for the 4th goal was just genius. But, in terms of importance, Zimbabwe 1, Cameroon 0 in 1993. 85+ on the clock, Vitalis Takawira with a deft pass from the left, Agent Sawu with a header. Admire Taderera going bonkers. Pandemonium.’’ Lovemore Chikova “4 July 1993, National Sports Stadium, World Cup Qualifier Group C; Cameroon had made history at the 1990 World Cup. Zimbabwe were wearing all-white against Cameroon. Zim 1 Cam 0. Super line-up — Bruce, Mapeza, Shonhayi, Sibanda, Mckop, Nkonjera, Phiri, Gundani, Adam, Peter, Sawu. Munyaradzi Koti “For me, it was when we beat Mali 1-0 (Lazarus Muhoni), the buzz in the stadium was electrifying, and we knew that set us well on our way to make it for AFCON 2004. Second best would be beating Algeria.’’ Phillip Mutserwa “Given the quality of opposition, the pressure of expectations, the controversy that forced a replay at neutral venue, for the first time on European soil, the game became a global attraction. I will still go with my first pick Egypt vs Zim replay.’’