The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
PRINCE EDWARD starlet Brandon Nyagurungo could become the next Zimbabwean striker to play in Europe if he impresses at Senegal-based Cayor Foot Academy during his eight-month attachment stint. The 18-year-old forward, who is waiting for his “A” Level results, is scheduled to leave for Senegal this Thursday. The 1.78m tall player was deemed good enough for a dance with Cayor Foot by the academy’s chief scout, South Africa-based Zimbabwean Eric Bafana, in a tournament in Harare last September. Nyagurungo was initially scheduled to fly out in December but the academy was shifting base to accommodate the ever-growing number. The acclaimed Cayor Foot Academy is increasingly viewed as the major gateway to Europe for African youngsters. Scouts from Sweden, Denmark, Norway and France frequent the academy which is now known to be housing the crème de la crème of the continent. It is the owners of this ever-growing institution, with the help of Bafana, who played a major role in placing Warriors’ in-demand striker Tino Kadewere at Djugardens in Sweden before he subsequently joined French second tier side Le Havre where he is currently riding on the crest of the wave. And Nyagurungo will be hoping to catch the eye and possibly force a move to Europe before his attachment lapses in September this year. “I am going there with a positive mind. I know an opportunity as big as this one avails itself once-in-a-lifetime. I have no any other option than to impress and get to the next level in my career,” said Nyagurungo. “I know I will have to adjust to the hot-humid conditions in West Africa as quickly as possible. I would like to thank Cayor Foot Academy for this opportunity. It’s up to me to justify my inclusion in such a beautiful institution.” If he impresses, Nyagurungo could as well open the door for more of his compatriots. Bafana revealed yesterday interest in Zimbabwean players has grown and if Nyagurungo does well, more players from this country will end up finding their way to Europe via that same route. “Tino Kadewere’s form has particularly convinced everyone at Cayor Foot Academy to give more Zimbabweans an opportunity to try their luck. So if Nyagurungo manages to do well, I have no doubt more offers will be extended to young Zimbabwean players,” he said. Nyagurungo’s coach at Prince Edward Academy, Norman Taruvinga, said he has no doubt the striker will attract interest in Europe. “Nyagurungo is one player with rare talent. He is a good dribbler, has an eye for goal, very strong on both feet and versatile enough to take up any attacking position. He is a hard worker in the field and his aerial prowess is incredible for an 18-year-old. I am sure he will do well and possibly find his way to the next level,” said Taruwinga. Taruwinga’s academy has been doing well of late and they have produced an array of players some of them good enough to play in the local Premiership. The Ngezi Platinum Stars trio of Marlvin Kwinjo, Mandhlenkosi Mlilo, who bagged the Mhondoro side’s Most Promising Player’s accolade last term and the Most Loyal Player’s winner for the same season, and Keith Murera all came through the Prince Edward mill. Kadewere himself, former Dynamos and Warriors goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva, Nigel Katawa, Issah Sadiki and Tanaka Chidhobha are products of this ambitious institution as well.