The Herald Thupeyo Muleya Beitbridge Bureau South Africa has extended operating hours to from 8am to 7pm  at its Home Affairs offices to expedite the processing of documents for those intending to travel or registrar children ahead of school opening. Some of the people expected to use the Home Affairs offices are citizens from other countries among them Zimbabweans seeking to regularize their stay south of the Limpopo River. In a statement on Thursday, the Department of Home Affairs said it had extended operating hours between 2 January and 10 January to meet the anticipated increase in demand of services during the period before the schools reopen. “The extension of operating hours excludes the weekend when the offices will be closed. At the beginning of each year, the Department of Home Affairs experiences increases in demand for enabling documents such as issuance of smart identity cards  and passports; birth and death certificates and for amendments and rectifications,” said the Department of Home Affairs. “The Department will ensure that everyone who is inside an office at the time of closing receives required services. “Office managers/supervisors are to apply their discretion to close the office 30 minutes prior to knock off time, subject to the number of people being serviced. “This is to allow officials to conclude all the necessary work before 1900 hours. The Department encourages people intending to visit our offices to do so as early as they can on their preferred day”. The department said people should also take advantage in extension of operating times and collect their outstanding documents among them National IDs. The organisation said it was very concerned by the number of uncollected smart ID cards by people who have applied for them. Late last year the organisation urged about 3000 Zimbabweans to collect their outstanding permits under the Zimbabwe Exemption Permits (ZEP). Pretoria introduced a four-year permit known as the Zimbabwe Exemption Permit (ZEP) for those wishing to study or work in that country in January 2018. The permits are valid between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2021 and replaced the Zimbabwe Special Permit (ZSP) whose lifespan expired in December 2017. A total of 197 941 holders of the ZSP permit were eligible to apply for the ZEP when the programme started but only 169 000 manage to apply via the Visa Facilitation Services. “The Home Affairs Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi congratulates parents of Christmas and New Year’s babies and urges them to register the births of the children at the Department of Home Affairs within 30 days. “After registration, the children will have birth certificates, their first enabling documents. People who do not have birth certificates usually have difficulties in acquiring other enabling documents and accessing some government services in future,” read part of the
statement.