The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
PREMIERSHIP side Harare City and Highfield Academy are set to reap huge benefits from the striker’s 15 million euro move to French top-flight side Lyon. The Sunshine Boys are set to get their piece of cake in a 750 000 euro payout that is set to benefit the clubs that contributed to Kadewere’s career. Harare City could be smiling all the way to the bank as they stand to pocket as much as 150 000 euro for the two years they spent with the Warriors forward between 2014 and 2016. According to the FIFA regulations, clubs that have contributed to a player’s development should share five percent of the total amount of his transfer fees. The local football association, ZIFA, also get a payout on every transfer. And, in this case Harare City and Swedish side Djurgardens, are set to benefit from the chunk of 750 000 euro which makes up the five percent of his recent move to French Ligue 1 side, Lyon. According to the calculations, Harare City are set to get 20 percent of the total. “If a professional moves during the course of a contract, 5% of any compensation, not including training compensation paid to his former club, shall be deducted from the total amount of this compensation and distributed by the new club as a solidarity contribution to the club(s) involved in his training and education over the years. “This solidarity contribution reflects the number of years (calculated pro rata if less than one year) he was registered with the relevant club(s) between the seasons of his 12th and 23rd birthdays, as follows: l Season of 12th birthday: 5% (i.e. 0.25% of total compensation) l Season of 13th birthday: 5% (i.e. 0.25% of total compensation) l Season of 14th birthday: 5% (i.e. 0.25% of total compensation) l Season of 15th birthday: 5% (i.e. 0.25% of total compensation) l Season of 16th birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) l Season of 17th birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) l Season of 18th birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) l Season of 19th birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) l Season of 20th birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) l Season of 21st birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) l Season of 22nd birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total  compensation) l Season of 23rd birthday: 10% (i.e. 0.5% of total compensation) 4“2 Payment procedure Both the academy and Harare City benefitted from Tino’s move from Sweden to French Ligue 2 side Le Havre. By then the French side paid a reported 2.5 million euros and five percent was deducted for the training compensation. Training compensation is paid to the clubs that contributed to the development part of the player. It is due when he signs his first contract as a professional, and each time a professional is transferred until the end of the season of his 23rd birthday. However, solidarity fees must be paid even after the age of 23. Harare City spokesperson, Michael Chideme, confirmed they have been contacted with regards to Kadewere’s move and were looking forward to getting their share. “Yes, we have benefitted in the past. When he moved from Sweden to France we got something and I can confirm we got communication at the weekend that we should expect something again. “I am not sure about the figures but something should definitely come our way,” said Chideme. Kadewere’s brother Prosper, who is one of the administrators running Highfield Academy, also confirmed getting a lump sum the last time the Warriors forward was involved in a transfer deal. “I am not sure about it this time around. But when he moved from Sweden to France for the first time, we got something. So we are just waiting to hear from his agent,” said Prosper. ZIFA are responsible with the follow-up with FIFA but the association could not shed more light yesterday.