The Herald MILUTIN “Micho’’ Sredojevic is expected in Zambia this week to finalise his move to become Chipolopolo coach on a two-year deal worth about US$600 000. The Serbian gaffer applied for the job to coach the Warriors before the Zambians sneaked in to get him. Football Association of Zambia have sought to clarify their stance on an important appointment ahead of the 2021 AFCON qualifiers, African Nations Championship and Qatar 2022 qualifying fixtures. “Micho is expected in the country this week to close the two-year deal that will see him bring an assistant and goalkeeper trainer,” FAZ confirmed. “While FAZ will attach a local assistant and goalkeeper coach to understudy the foreign bench. “Micho has wide African experience with his Midas touch having helped Uganda qualify to its first Africa Cup of Nations qualification in 38 years and also coached Rwanda with stops in Sudan, Ethiopia, South Africa and more recently Egypt.” KickOff.com understands that the Zambian government will contribute US$10 000 (R145 000), while FAZ is putting up US$15 000 (R218 000) with an overall package of US$600 000 (R8.7m) over two-years. Last week, FAZ wrote to the Zambian Government advising them of their decision to engage Micho. “We are pleased to inform you that, having followed due recruitment process, as guided by your office, the executive committee finally picked Mr Milutin “Micho’’ Sredolevic, as the Senior National Team Coach. “Mr Sredolevic, on an initial 2-year contract, shall come with a full complement of five coaches broken down as follows: 2.1 — Head coach, himself, 1st Assistant Coach and Goalkeeping Coach to be permanently based in Zambia and; 2.2 — Video Analyst and Physical Trainer to be available only when the Senior National Team has engagements. “In addition, FAZ shall also engage local coaches, a second Assistant Coach and a Goalkeeping Coach to understudy the Senior Coach and get up skilled during the two years the coach shall serve his first contract.’’ Zambia and Zimbabwe are in the same 2021 AFCON qualifying group. The qualifiers resume in March. The Warriors, who are also searching for a new substantive coach, edged Chipolopolo 2-1 in the first match in Lusaka. ZIFA said the new Warriors coach will be named this week amid expectations the identity of the gaffer will be revealed tomorrow. Micho’s engagement will bring the Zambia national team managerial drama, which has been rumbling for nearly 10 months, to an end. After terminating the contract of Sven Vandenbroeck in March 2019, for his inability to lead Zambia to the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, the national team has been without a permanent leader. In August last year, former Bloemfontein Celtic boss Vaselin Jelusic was confirmed as his successor but the appointment was vetoed by Minister of Sports Emmanuel Mulenga. With the Zambia Government subsidising the wages of the senior national team coach, the Football Association of Zambia made a dramatic U-turn before opening up for applicants once more. It is believed a local technical team was the preferred option for the Zambian government but out of 60 applicants, Milutin “Micho’’ Sredojevic was selected by FAZ as the ideal candidate for the role. While his selection was leaked to the media last week, without an official statement, uncertainty once again crept in on the latest appointment of a foreign tactician — Sports Reporter/Kick-Off.