The Herald Tadious Manyepo,Sports Reporter THE Warriors could get the best out of goalkeeper Martin Mapisa when they resume their chase for a 2021 AFCON finals place in March. The highly-rated ‘keeper recently sealed a confidence-boosting move to promotion-chasing Tercera División side Zamora CF in Spain. The Tercera Division is the fourth tier of the Spanish football league system. The 21-year-old Mapisa, who has kept goals for the Young Warriors in the past two years, switched from Zamora CF’s fellow Tercera Division club Vélez CF. Mapisa could end up helping table-topping Zamora CF into the Spanish third-tier league this season as his steady progress in the European country continues. His former club, Velez CF, appear well out of contention for promotion as they currently occupy eighth place in Group 9 in the Tercera Division. A product of the Aces Youth Soccer Academy in Harare, Mapisa has emerged as one of the most talented players in the division after joining Velez CF from CD Almunecar, a team four steps down the Tercera Division. The goalkeeper has been teammates with another Zimbabwean sensation, Abubakar Moffat. While Moffat has remained with Velez CF where he is one of the team’s key players, Mapisa has been snatched by Zamora CF who want to galvanise their squad for the Segunda División B promotional play-offs. Vélez CF confirmed Mapisa’s move to Zamora FC on their official website. The team hailed the Zimbabwean for his stellar performances during his short stay at the Malaga side. “This release confirms that the soccer player Martin Mapisa ceases to belong to the first team of Vélez Club de Fútbol after signing a professional contract with the Zamora Club de Fútbol,” read a statement from the site. “From Vélez CF, we thank you for your services provided, in addition to wishing you luck and success in your new stage, as well as throughout your personal and professional future.” Zamora CF is based in the north-west town of Spain near the border with Portugal. The team have a nine-point cushion at the summit of the log in the Tercera División — Group 8. Mapisa is one of the recent products from Aces Youth Soccer Academy.