The Herald BIRMINGHAM. – Aston Villa fans have laid into their Zimbabwean midfielder Marvelous Nakamba after his latest performance against Leicester City. Villa managed to pick up a credible 1-1 draw with Leicester on Wednesday night in the first-leg of their Carabao Cup semi-final. Villa put in a solid defensive performance, as they gave themselves a good chance of making it through to Wembley. Many of Dean Smith’s side’s players earned praise for their efforts against Leicester on Wednesday night. However, Villa fans have slated Nakamba, and there are serious concerns over whether he has enough quality to play for them now. It clearly wasn’t the 25-year-old’s best display since signing from Club Brugge for £11 million in the summer, but he has still been a regular for the Villans, starting 10 matches in the league so far. He hasn’t always been as disappointing, so there will be hope that this was just a one-off. The Villa fans clearly weren’t happy with his showing, and they made their feelings known on Twitter soon after the match. Here are some of the views by the Villa fans on Twitter on Nakamba’s performance on Wednesday night:  “Think Nakamba has been our worst signing of the summer. “Horrendous touch, can’t pass, but has a game every now again where he looks like a brickwall.#avfc https://t.co/k8PwKhwKIj” — Jack Cudworth (@JackCudworth) January 9, 2020 “Our worse player was Nakamba. Poor in his distribution. But that being said, noone can be unhappy with the result tonight, considering our injury list. Well done #Avfc” — Jon Sims (@JonathanSimssi1) January 9, 2020 “As a Villa fan  . . . thpugjt we set up very well tonight. Nakamba a liability . . . should have been subbed after 20 mins  — Adrian Dent (@dentfineart) January 9, 2020 “Marvelous Nakamba has the most ironic name in football. Just not good enough. #avfc” — Jason Canham (@jcanham1986) January 8, 2020 “Luiz is a quality player, poor mistake but still young. Midfield struggled at times but constantly under pressure with few out balls. Not sure on Nakamba though makes far too many errors.” — nhughes (@Azzajak) January 8, 2020 “Nakamba looks scared of the ball, he tries to get it out of his feet as quickly as possible, which usually results in sloppy passes. Luiz isn’t consistent enough, we need someone with quality in midfield, who will grab the ball and look for that through ball and we need a striker!” — Carl James (@CarlKynaston) January 8, 2020 “Remember when Nakamba was winning everything, controlling the midfield, everyone had Zimbabwe flags in their name. Now the guy can’t make a 5 yard pass. Shame.” — James (@Shead___) January 8, 2020 That seems a bit harsh on Nakamba, considering he had a pass accuracy of 90,5 percent. Only two starters for Smith’s team managed to register a higher number. Nakamba’s place in Villa’s first-team could actually come under threat, as Smith has already strengthened his midfield in January. Villa snapped up Danny Drinkwater, and it could be that the Chelsea loanee replaces Nakamba in the claret and blues’ starting line-up, unless the Zimbabwean international improves.— Hitc.com