The Herald Sports Reporter FOR the second year running, a new Sportsperson of the Year will be crowned tonight during the Annual National Sports Awards at Manna Resorts. The reigning Sportsperson of the Year, Wilfred Mashaya, was also unheralded when he was crowned the champion athlete for 2018. In 2016 and 2017 Charles Manyuchi and Samson Muripo dominated the awards, each winning the top accolade for the second time. Manyuchi had first won the award in 2014 and made it two in 2016. Muripo got his first gong in 2009 and second in 2017. But Mashaya, from the martial arts, broke the tradition to be crowned winner, for the first time, following his exploits at international level. Tonight, a new winner will be announced after Muripo, Manyuchi and Mashaya failed to make this year’s final list. A host of new names made the list for the 2019 edition with Themba Gorimbo, of mixed martial arts, among the favourites to win the Sportsperson of the Year. Gorimbo was crowned Extreme Fighting Championship welterweight champion last year. He became the first Zimbabwean to achieve such a feat. The other nominees in this category are triple jumper Chengetayi Mapaya and tennis player Benjamin Lock. After captivating the nation with their impressive show at the Netball World Cup in Liverpool last year, where they finished eighth, the senior netball national team made the list for the Team of the Year award. The Gems were making their debut appearance at the global stage and announced their arrival with a bang, surprising many, as they fought toe-to-toe with some of the world’s best teams. While their success story became a major highlight for 2019, they are facing stiff competition from the Special Olympics team of Dadirai Jack and Hallel Guri, who won a gold medal in the bocce unified doubles at the 2019 Special Olympics World Summer Games. Special Olympics has become one of the country’s success stories, which speaks volumes about the sound leadership in that category. The cricket senior women’s team, which won the International Cricket Council Women’s Qualifier Africa last year, are also in contention for the same award. Gems’ coach Lloyd Makunde is up for the Coach of the Year award alongside Pamela Fulton from triathlon and Owen Makuruwa athletics (Special Olympics). Long distance runner Rutendo Nyahora, Regina Jonga from bodybuilding and triathlete Laurelle Brown are the finalists for the Sportswoman of the Year award. Sports Commission corporate communications officer Tirivashe Nheweyembwa said all was set for the awards ceremony. Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Kirsty Coventry is the guest of honour for the event. “We are excited in that she is an accomplished athlete in her own right, being Africa’s most decorated Olympian, and we are sure her presence will inspire the nominees to aim higher. “It is also our utmost conviction that Hon. Dr Kirsty Coventry’s presence will pitch the awards to the level that we would want them to be,” said Nheweyembwa.  The finalists Junior Sportswoman of the Year: Christi Rose Pretorious (Judo), Andie Leigh Kuipers (Triathlon), Donata Katai (Swimming). Junior Sportsman of the Year: Matthew Antony Denslow (Triathlon), Denilson Cyprianos (Swimming), Emmanuel Bako (Motosport). Junior Sportswoman with a Disability: Peace Taruvinga (Athletics T20), Mufarowashe Shambira (Athletics — Special Olympics), Babra Njovo (Athletics — Special Olympics). Junior Sportsman of the Year with a Disability: Tapiwanashe Mutsikira (Athletics — Special Olympics), Takudzwa Matonhodze (Golf — Special Olympics), Pride Mafira (Athletics T44). Sportswoman of the Year: Rutendo Nyahora (Athletics), Regina Jonga (Bodybuilding), Laurelle Brown (Triathlon). Sportsman of the Year: Chengetayi Mapaya (Athletics), Benjamin Lock (Tennis), Themba Gorimbo (Mixed Martial Arts). Sportswoman of the Year with a Disability: Margaret Bangajena (Wheelchair Racing), Kalyn Chikara (Golf — Special Olympics), Morine Mavhunga (Para-Badminton). Sportsman of the Year with a Disability: Shepard Patrick (Athletics — Special Olympics), Derreck Chifamba (Golf  — Special Olympics), Tungamirai Mudyanadzo (Golf — Special Olympics). Team of the Year: Netball Senior Team (The Gems — Netball), Dadirai Jack and Hallel Guri (Bocce — Special Olympics), Cricket Senior Women’s Team (The Lady Chevrons — Cricket). Coach of the Year: Lloyd Makunde (Netball), Pamela Fulton (Triathlon), Owen Makuruwa (Athletics — Special Olympics). Technical Official of the Year: Sarah Benett (Hockey), Patrick Mukondiwa (Boxing), Langton Rusere (Cricket).