The Herald Ellina Mhlanga, Sports Reporter UPCOMING long-distance runner, Carnisios Wenjere and Miriam Sibanda, emerged winners of Mr Pace Cross Country event in the senior men and women 10km race at Seke 6 High School in Chitungwiza yesterday. Wenjere, of Mr Pace, won the senior men’s 10km in 31minutes 40.16seconds to beat favourite Moses Tarakinyu of Black Rhinos into second place. Tarakinyu completed the race in 32minutes 28.08seconds. Wenjere said it has not been easy for him transitioning from juniors to seniors and yesterday’s win was encouraging. “I didn’t think I was going to win because most of the athletes I competed with today used to beat me and it has been difficult moving from juniors to seniors. “I have been struggling. But, because of the training that I have been getting, today it was a bit easier. “I used to do very well at junior level, I even went to Malawi, Zambia and South Africa when I was at school but at senior level it has not been easy. “This is my first major win in Zimbabwe, so I am really excited. “And my time today, I noticed there is an improvement,” said Wenjere. The senior women was won by Sibanda of Powerhouse in 37minutes 39.26seconds. She was followed by her teammate Rudo Mhonderwa with a time of 38minutes 10.05seconds. In third and fourth place were Fortunate Chidzivo and Patience Murove in 38minutes 33.98seconds and 39minutes 35.18seconds. Acquiline Bungu of Mr Pace also had a good day course, winning the junior women’s 6km race with a time of  24minutes 17.05seconds. Charity Dambiranwa of Taflow was second in 24minutes 41.53seconds. The junior men’s 8km was won by Golden Mhonderwa from Powerhouse in 27minutes 18.92seconds. Tafadzwa Tarakinyu was the second to cross the finish line in 28minutes 41.67seconds and in third place was Christopher Denga in 29minutes 10.79seconds. The event, also used to select the provincial team for Harare to compete at the National Cross Country championships next month, attracted some of the country’s top distance runners. Harare coaches coordinator, Collen Makaza, is convinced they will have another good outing at the national event, which they are hosting this year. “I think the event was more competitive. We had most of the top athletes for senior men and women. “The winner for the men was a surprise but, unfortunately, most of the guys did not finish the race because of the weather. We started the race late.