The Herald Tadious Manyepo,Sports Reporter CAPS UNITED coach Darlington Dodo has started implementing the team’s new thrust on recruiting young players, but has reassured fans that the Premiership football side will remain competitive. The Green Machine’s co-director Nhamo Tutisani, early this week revealed plans by the club to revolutionise the way the team is run, including recruiting young players who can be developed into saleable products. The remarks sparked heated debate, with “extremists” arguing the club would literally be reduced to an academy. But Dodo yesterday expressed Makepekepe’s desire to remain competitive in the league. “Obviously CAPS United cannot be in the league to add numbers, so no matter what, the team has to compete,” said Dodo. “But we cannot say we want to win the league before the season even starts. What is important at the moment is to keep our focus. We need to compete.” Though the CAPS United gaffer hinted his side will be dominated by young players, some old horses are likely to be retained to blend with the youthful guns. “The team that we are assembling at the moment is a blend of youth and experience. “We will basically be implementing the team’s vision. There will be a lot of youngsters in the team who we believe will deliver.” Dodo is aware of the club’s business needs and is ready to comply. “Our focus resonates well with the management. Football is not all about going out there and win every game. It’s an art which should produce the best players who can attract fans to the stadium. “It doesn’t mean if we use young players we won’t be winning. “Look at clubs like Asec Mimosas of Ivory Coast. They started playing the likes of Yaya Toure when he was still a teenager, but they were still performing wonders in the CAF Champions League. “It all depends with the players’ attitude. We are confident we will be able to nurture the players well. Last year we had Blessing Sarupinda making headlines at only 20. We can have a lot more players like him. That’s our plan.” Makepekepe have already lost their star player Joel Ngodzo, who has joined Zambian outfit Buildcon, but Dodo believes the 2019 Soccer Star of the Year can easily be replaced. Striker Dominic Chungwa has also left the team and penned a two-year contract with another Zambian side, Lumwana Radiants. While they lost those stars, Makepekepe have signed Chicken Inn star midfielder Innocent Mucheneka and are on the verge of securing Chapungu winger Ian Nyoni and goalkeeper Talbert Shumba, with ZPC Kariba defender Ian Nyoni also set to join the Green Machine. “If we can develop more youngsters then you won’t even see that Joel Ngodzo is no longer there. Of course, Ngodzo is a very good player who has made his name but look, we have so many big-name players who passed through the club, the likes of Joe Mugabe and Joel Shambo, amongst an array of other good players. “That means the team can always produce more stars. “We are of course aware of the mistakes which we committed last season and we always look back and review. We also had some positives which we can build on.” Although Dodo, whose side starts pre-season preparations next week, was not at liberty to divulge the names of the players he was likely to off-load, it has since been established that Dominic Mukandi, Valentine Musarurwa, Justice Jangano and Godwin Goriati were all on their way out of the team. Phineas Bhamusi, Ronald Chitiyo as well as Kudzanayi Nyamupfukudza could all be on the exit list as well. Meanwhile, defender Method Mwanjali, who got injured when the league was entering the home stretch last season, is on his way to recovery and could be ready for action when the season starts in March. Dodo said the veteran player has started light training with the team’s medical staff monitoring him. CAPS United finished third last season in a marathon they looked so much in control when they failed to collect a single point in their last two games. 