The Herald Ellina Mhlanga, Sports Reporter THE Harare Athletics Board is today set to host their Season Opener Cross-country Championships at Morris Depot with athletes of different age-groups expected to compete. The event comes a week after the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe national season opener track and field held last week in Harare got the athletics season underway. Cadets boys and girls will participate in 2km race while Under-18 men and women will take part in 4km. The Under-20 men and women will be up for the 6km race and senior men and women will get to measure their readiness for the season in the in the 8km race. HAB secretary-general Sledge Chinyoka confirmed that all is in place for today’s competition. “All is set for tomorrow’s (today’s) cross-country. We are expecting a high turnout as everyone is now getting geared up for NAPH, NASH, tertiary and inter-provincial cross-country championships. “Since it’s a preliminary race, senior races have been reduced by two kilometres so that athletes can be assessed on various fundamentals,” said Chinyoka. Following a slow start to the national track and field meet last week, Chinyoka said they are hopeful of a better attendance today. “Most clubs have now started their preparations for 2020 as compared to the first weekend of the year where athletes will be returning from the festive season. “Unfortunately we don’t have pre-entries, so we cannot know exactly who is coming. However, I have had the highest number of athletes coming for the first time enquiring about the proceedings. “It seems people now view athletics as a course of not only employment and remuneration but also for maintaining a healthy body,” Chinyoka said. While the organisers are expecting a high turnout, some of the seasoned athletes have indicated that they will not be taking part with some indicating they are not yet ready for competition as they had busy schedules that stretched into their holidays and others are already focusing on major events. It was the same last week at the national championships where most of the top athletes were missing in action with most of them having already intensified their preparations towards qualification events for the Olympic Games.