The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo,Senior Arts Reporter Model Tania Tatenda Aaron is optimistic she will bring the crown home from the 57th edition of Miss Global pageant slated for January 18 in Oaxaca, Mexico. The 24-year-old beauty queen, who left the country early this week to represent Zimbabwe at the prestigious pageant, will join 59 other contestants from across the globe in a boot camp in Oaxaca, Mexico. Rehearsals and photo-shoots will be done for two-and-a-half weeks prior to the competition ahead of the coronation night. The pageant which is running under the theme, “Empowering Women, Embracing Cultures, Embodying the Beauty Within” has so far done evening gown photo-shoots with some of the world renowned photographers. Aaron is doing well with her social media posts and pictures, which have received a lot of audience. Speaking from Mexico, Aaron said all is well and she is happy with the progress in the boot-camp. “I have already made friends and I am learning a lot from other contestants their cultures and traditions. There is tough competition but I hope to bring the crown home. I came prepared and this is going to be a dream come true. “It has been nothing but serious work, shoots and interviews. The reception by the Mexican people is very warm and welcoming. Their hospitality have made us feel at home. We toured Oaxaca City a cultural and historic city in Mexico. “We are now going to Mexico City where preliminary competition will be done and a tour of the Mexico City as well then we heard back to Oaxaca,” she said. Aaron who is not new to the world of pageantry said corporate sponsors had given her an opportunity to go this far. “As a model having a lot of support from family, friends and stakeholders is not easy but motivates me to prove myself. My wardrobe is being sponsored by Nandi, Rich Chasers, Thembani Mubochwa and Style by Mine, in addition Maxine Adams of the popular brand “Christian by Hadassah” provided me with make-up. “I promise to deliver the best results and again can’t wait to come back home and share my experiences with other models. This is the right time where the girl child should be empowered and people should be told the true story about modelling that it is also a career that can sustain livelihoods if taken seriously,” she said. She said there were a lot of myths and misconceptions about modelling resulting in girls being scared to participate in modelling. It takes you and me to set the record straight so that we bring sanity to the industry,” she said. The model is selected to represent the country by Miss Zimbabwe International Trust through thorough vetting. Miss Global is a prestigious competition that goes beyond physical beauty of women. The contestants are encouraged to express their individuality with poise, grace and wits. The pageant is held to find beauty, talent, brains and ambassadorial qualities within the contestants. Last year’s winner was Sophia Ng from Canada.