The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
AMBITIOUS ZIFA Northern Region Division One League football side Simba Bhora coach Arthur “Tuts” Tutani is hopeful that he is going to have a good project after their trials which began on Tuesday and end today attracted high-profile names. The team will bring back Division One football to the mining town of Shamva after three years since Wadzanai Stadium hosted matches of such magnitude. Tutani, credited for winning Premiership promotion with Monomotapa and Black Rhinos before will steer the ship together with Ralph Kawondera (Snr), said the turnout at the trials was very encouraging. “I am very happy with the turnout and we have been having the trials since Tuesday and we are getting more than 50 players every day. “There is a lot of talent, and I will make sure that I identify areas that may need reinforcements before the season begins.
“We are grateful for the support we are getting from the team owners, and if we continue like this, then nothing will stop us from gaining promotion into the Premier League. “There are a lot of big names trying their luck here, and we will bring on board those who would have impressed,” said Tutani.
Simba Bhora, formerly Simba Stars, are making a return to the Northern Region Division One some nine years after they were denied promotion due to match-fixing allegations back in 2009. The team’s proprietor Simba Ndoro said they are leaving no stone unturned in their bid to gain Premiership promotion this coming season. “We want to make history and we will do it I know.
“This is not my first project as in 2009 we managed to win promotion, but we were let down by some people who were in charge as they gave us a raw deal. “I still have the passion of owning a successful team and bring back Premier League football to Mashonaland Central, and we want to do it early, we do not need to spend two seasons and the time is now. Simba Bhora, who began their pre-season yesterday, have brought on board high profile team management and experienced players. The team has brought on board some big names and will be steered by seasoned Division One coach Tutani in their bid to win promotion. As they end their trials today, the team already has in their books former Premiership players Brian Muzondiwa, Quality Kangadzi, Raphael Manuvire, Honey Chimutimunzeve among several others.
Manuvire is a Chegutu Pirates player who briefly played for Chapungu United last season after having played for Dynamos in 2018. “I think by beginning the preparations early, it shows that we are aiming the big one, that is to gain promotion.
“We are very excited as we are getting the much-needed support from the locals and by getting into Division One, we expect the numbers to double. “We were happy that we had Mushowani Stars from the province, but unfortunately they were relegated, so we need to quickly bring back top flight football. “We know what we will be facing in terms of competition in the league, but we will try our best to win the championship,” added Ndoro. Simba Bhora will be joined by FC Prison Stars, FC Charles, Come Again and returnees Commando Bullets and Chinhoyi Stars.