The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter NEWLY-CROWNED Zimbabwe Sports-person of the Year, Themba Gorimbo, says winning is something that runs in his blood and the recognition he received was well deserved. The martial artist made history when he became the first local athlete to win an Extreme Fighting Championship welterweight title last year. He also won the Sportsman of the Year on Wednesday. “It’s normal for me, I knew I was going to win. I am a winner and I win, that’s what I do,’’ said Gorimbo. “I hope it does have huge impact on my future plans. Success is good. I am inspired by success because I want to feel this for the rest of my life. “I want to inspire people.’’ Swimming star, Donata Katai, was crowned the Junior Sports-person of the Year and Junior Sportswoman of the Year. “I am very excited and very happy, definitely. It’s something I didn’t expect, so definitely (it’s) quite an achievement. “It’s definitely a good thing to put on my CV but I think for now it’s more (about) inspiring swimmers out there that we can do it, that we do have a voice in swimming,” said Katai. Her mother, Desdemona Katai, was overjoyed by her daughter’s achievement. “The feeling is fantastic, there is nothing like it, to see your child achieve so much and because you have seen how hard she has put everything into it,’’ she said. “To get something, out of all the hard work she has done, is an amazing thing as a parent.’’ Former Gems captain Perpetua Siyachitema, who led the team at the Netball World Cup, was happy to see her team win the Team of the Year award. “I am so happy, I have retired and I know that I have achieved everything that I ever wanted, going to the World Cup and, winning this award, it really means a lot to me personally. “I think it’s just going to motivate some young girls out there, I know they are going to join netball,” said Siyachitema. Wednesday’s ceremony was one of the best in recent years with Sports Minister, Kirsty Coventry, who was also the guest of honour, saying it was high time they raised the bar for the awards. “I think it’s a time where the awards need to be special, it’s about celebrating the athletes and the teams and the coaches and all of the national associations that have done so well and worked so hard,’’ she said. “So, it’s our way of saying thank you to them, keep going. “I gave the mandate to the SRC Board, I had very high expectations and I think they have exceeded those expectations, it’s a beautiful night. “I have only heard good things from athletes, from the sports network. As an athlete, I am always analysing things and so I think there is few things where we can get better. “But, it was a very good start for the re-branding of what sport can be and can offer this country.’’ Sports Commission board chairman, Gerald Mlotshwa, underlined the importance of national associations to do away with bad governance practices.