The Herald Charles Mabika,Special Correspondent ALTHOUGH the just-ended decade was another mirage of the wonderful moments of yesteryear crafted by legendary greats like George Shaya, Bruce Grobbelaar, Ernest Kamba, Max Tshuma, Joseph Zulu, Moses Chunga, Stanford Mutizwa, Stanley Ndunduma, Joel Shambo, James Takavada, Willard Mashinkila-Kumalo, Madinda, Adam and Peter Ndlovu, Alois Bunjira and Stewart Murisa, local football fans still revelled in the high-class entertainment created by some heart-stopping league title photo-finishes during that period. For example, on both occasions in 2013 and 2014, CAPS United “returned the favour” that had been done for them back in 2005 by their No. 1 Enemy — Dynamos — who beat title favourites and then log leaders Masvingo United 2-1 on the last day of that season on a rain-soaked Mucheke Stadium pitch to enable the Green Machine to lift the title despite losing 1-3 to Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium —  after they beat the Blue Army’s strongest  challengers for the league crown — Harare City and ZPC Kariba — again on the very last days to enable DeMbare to land the crown. We then witnessed another last-gasp finish, once again involving the Green Machine, in the just-ended season but sadly this time, they failed to do themselves a favour when they were edged by FC Platinum 1-0 and bowed out in tears at the same giant venue where they had played second fiddle to Chauya Chipembere 14 years ago. But the most amazing achievement in the last 10 years was surely DeMbare’s astounding, four-year triumph as league champions from 2011 to 2014 under head coach, Callisto “Manabhun” Pasuwa. The only two other coaches who won the grand prize on two occasions were Norman “Muchina Wemajuzi” Mapeza (FC Platinum in 2017 and 2018) and Joey “Mafero” Antipas (Motor Action, 2010 and Chicken Inn, 2015). The saddest spectacle was that since 2010, when Gunners’ top marksman, Norman “Lumumba” Maroto, scored 22 goals in that season, no other striker has managed to harvest the same haul. The plummeting strikers’ ordeal aside, there were various players who managed to rise above the surface with some eye-catching displays over those 10 years and for me, the following is My Team of 2010-2019 (in a 4-4-2 formation), including their seven substitutes and coach: GOALKEEPER Ariel Sibanda (Highlanders): Undoubtedly the most consistent shot-stopper over the last decade. A marvel to watch during penalty kicks where he has mastered the art of saving and also scoring them. An able leader who has matured with age and has been unfortunate not to have established himself as the Warriors No. 1 goalkeeper. Always urges the Bosso fans to rally behind their team when the chips are down. Nicknamed “Umangoyi” (The Cat) for his agility. DEFENDERS Hardlife Zvirekwi (Gunners/CAPS United): One of the finest examples of sheer determination and the zeal to conquer adversities after he came back from a harrowing motor vehicle accident that claimed part of his right arm through amputation. “Nairobi” has been the heart and soul of “Makepekepe” for a large part of the past decade and was deservedly voted the Soccer Star of the Year in 2016. Loves to overlap from the right wing- back’s position to float in perfect crosses for his strikers and is a cunning dead ball artist. Was a regular member of the Warriors until two years ago. Ocean Mushure (Monomotapa/Dynamos): An attack-mined wing-back who thrilled us with his cultured left foot when delivering crosses or executing deadly free-kicks. Was the driving force of some of the Dynamos attacks in that amazing four-year successive league triumph’s spell and had his best season two years ago and many felt that he was “robbed” of the Soccer Star of the Year award after he finished third behind the FC Platinum duo of winner Rodwell Chinyengetere and first runner-up Kelvin Moyo. A roving left wing- back who left the country last year to ply his trade in Zambia. Popularly known as “Ngoda” (Gold) because of his rich crosses and finishes. Kelvin Moyo (FC Platinum): Like his nickname, “Super Glue”, always sticks to his man like glue and formed a rock-solid centre-back partnership with his twin brother Elvis at Pure Platinum Play for the bulk of the just-ended decade. Has been called up for junior and senior national duty a couple of times. An intelligent defender who is a marvel to watch when he springs airborne to outwit his opponents for a clearance and loves to join in the attack. Moved recently to South African top-flight side Chippa United to continue his partnership with Elvis where they were joined this year by their former FC Platinum boss, Mapeza. Partson Jaure (Dynamos/Ngezi Platinum/Manica Diamonds): A pebble on the beach when it comes to clean tackling and sweeping clearances. Aptly nicknamed “Minister of Defence” because of his uncanny ability as a precise rearguard enforcer. Quiet and unassuming off the pitch but readily transforms into a bull terrier once he steps onto the green turf which is more like home to him. An astute commander on the pitch who also loves to join the attack especially at corner kicks where he has scored a few times for the clubs he has featured for. MIDFIELDERS Devon Chafa (Kiglon/Dynamos/CAPS United/FC Platinum): A hard grafter who covers every blade of grass and is in the same industrious mould of yesteryear great, David “Yogi” Mandigora. Is the only player in local football history to win a total of seven championship medals with three different clubs (Dynamos, CAPS United and FC Platinum). A menacing man-marker and exceptional ball winner, “DC” has been one of the deadliest dead ball specialists we have seen during the past decade. Was a Warriors regular until two years ago but is destined to reclaim his place as the 2021 AFCON and 2022 World Cup qualifiers roar into life soon. Clement Matawu (Motor Action/Chicken Inn): Undoubtedly the most consistent performer in the past decade and earned the nickname “The Naughty Flea” after legendary Chibuku Shumba and Black Aces linkman, the late David Muchineripi, for his “sticking strictly to business” attitude on the pitch. Was the engine room of the Gamecocks (2015) league championship triumph and although now 35 years old, is still going strong. A tireless and astute distributor from the centre of the park, he has also crafted magical ways of notching important goals in his long and outstanding career. Won the Soccer Star of the Year award back in 2006 and has also been a finalist four more times in the past decade. Denver Mukamba (Kiglon/Dynamos/CAPS United/Chapungu): We’ve all heard and read about the off-the-pitch lifestyle of the legendary Northern Ireland Manchester United’s brilliant and flamboyant midfielder, George Best. And Mukamba also comes from the same stable as the late Irishman. Undoubtedly the most talented and skilful player to parade his repertoire on the local stage in the just-ended decade, the lanky magician is an immensely gifted playmaker who was the “weapon of destruction” in that Dynamos’ mesmerising 2011-2012 blitz in the league and Mbada Diamonds Cup assaults and a scorer of many dazzling goals. If only “Mundikumbuke” can remedy his ways (hopefully, he seemed to have been doing that since he joined Chapungu in mid-season last year) then even the Warriors will have found the heir-apparent to Ronald “Gidiza” Sibanda to spray those breathtaking passes all over the pitch once more. Won the Soccer Star of the Year award in 2012. Joel Ngodzo (Highlanders/FC Platinum/CAPS United): An energetic and swashbuckling, attacking midfield entertainer who loves to roam upfield from the middle of the park with aplomb. Has been one of the stand-out performers for the last decade and eventually his star shone brightly when he landed the Soccer of the Year title last season. Has “outlived” his two elder brothers — Johannes and Zephaniah — in the game and has now decided to try his luck in Zambia. “Josta” is another impressive exponent of those special goals that are struck with mercurial ingenuity whilst on the run. FORWARDS Norman Maroto (Gunners/Motor Action): A little gunslinger who scored 22 goals in 2010 following a great season at Gunners and later moved to Motor Action before hanging up his boots in 2015. He is probably still having the last laugh as he waits for someone to break his duck. Burst into the big time with Dynanos whilst doing his “A” Levels at Churchill High School in 2002 and immediately caught the eye. Undoubtedly the finest striker of the local game in the years 2010-2019. Rodwell Chinyengetere (Hwange/FC Platinum): This guy is a midfielder but always outshines the so-called strikers of our game since his days at Hwange in 2011. Defied a career-threatening leg injury that had ruled out of action for almost two seasons but relaunched his career at FC Platinum to grab all the headlines as he ended up as the country’s leading goalscorer for two successive seasons in 2017-18, by scoring 18 goals in each season and go on to win two successive Soccer Star of the Year titles in that period for his remarkable performances in the middle of the park and in and around the penalty box. He is nicknamed “Amla” after his idol, former South African international cricketer, opening batsman Hashim Amla, SUBSTITUTES: Tafadza Dube (Dynamos/FC Platinum/CAPS United/Manica Diamonds), Gift Bello (Kiglon/Dynamos/FC Platinum), Passmore Bernard (Motor Action/Chicken Inn). Charles Sibanda (Motor Action/FC Platinum/Highlanders). Erick Mudzingwa (Highlanders), Murape Murape (Dynamos), David Kutyauripo (Dynamos/CAPS United/Harare City). COACH: Callisto Pasuwa (Dynamos).