The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HERENTALS have been found guilty of match manipulation, which could see them being relegated to Division One, but the Harare club have vowed to challenge the decision. The Students finished the 2019 championship race on 41 points, one point above Chapungu, who occupied the last relegation slot. But, they could pave way for Chapungu to the Premiership after three points were chopped from their tally by the PSL Disciplinary Committee. The Students were found guilty of trying to manipulate the result of their match against Black Rhinos last year. In addition, the team was fined $300 000 while team manager Oliver Chirenga has been handed a 10-year ban from all football activities. He has also been fined $20 000. Black Rhinos team manager, Gift Kamuriwo, was also found guilty and slapped with a three-year ban. However, one year could be suspended if the former Warriors midfielder pays a fine amounting to $10 000. Herentals were found guilty of contravening Order 31.1.3 of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Rules and Regulations which makes it an offence, on the part of a club, where; “Its players, officials, servant or duly authorised (expressed or implied) representatives, for any corrupt, dishonesty or lawful purpose in connection with a game played under auspices of the League ,or in connection with the League, give, offer or promise, whether directly or indirectly, any inducement, reward or bribe of whatsoever nature, to anybody whatsoever.” The Students were found guilty of influencing the outcome of their second leg league tie against Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium on October 19 last year. Herentals won that tie 3-0 courtesy of a quick-fire hat-trick from Blessing Majarira. However, Herentals said they will exhaust all the legal options with secretary-general Fainos Madhumbu revealing yesterday his team would contest the judgment. “We are shocked by the judgment. The law of evidence has been rendered useless. We are definitely going to appeal this judgment,” said Madhumbu. “We only heard it from the press that Oliver (Chirenga) was involved in such transactions. “Surprisingly, the mobile phone which he is being accused of using to communicate with Kamuriwo is not even in his (Chirenga) name.