The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE wicketkeeper batsman Dane Schadendorf’s magnificent stumping of a New Zealand player during the build-up to the ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup has provided a scintillating spectacle with a moment of magic that has had the youth Chevrons in the spotlight ahead of the start of the tournament today. Schadendorf’s feat in the victory over New Zealand during the preparatory Quadrangular series has sent social media into meltdown in the past week while drawing comparisons with greats such as India’s legendary former skipper MS Dhoni and Sri Lanka’s Kumar Sangakkara. The Zimbabwean wicketkeeper’s stumping effort to dismiss New Zealand batsman Beckham Wheeler-Greenall during the third place play-off of the Quadrangular series has received plaudits from many in the cricket fraternity across the globe. Schadendorf seized his moment of magic in the 36th over after Wheeler-Greenall attempted to whack Zimbabwe spinner Tadiwanashe Nyangani, but missed the ball. The 17-year-old wicketkeeper moved to his left to collect the ball and with a no-look back flick, he flipped the ball on to the stumps and had Wheeler-Greenall out as Zimbabwe marched to a close two-wicket win.
“Some have described it as “jaw-dropping”, “magical”, “insane” and “magical”. “It was a moment of brilliance, the boy has a bright future,” said Zimbabwe Under-19 coach Prosper Utseya in a brief remark.
“This stumping from Zimbabwe Under-19s Dane Schadendorf is out of this world,” screamed the official ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup Twitter page in a post featuring the video. Schadendorf, who finished the practice games with a sparkling 81 runs in the defeat to India on Tuesday, is one of the many talented young Zimbabweans cherishing their opportunity to shine on the big stage in youth cricket. He was among the non-travelling reserves at the last edition of the tournament held in New Zealand two years ago.
South Africa and Afghanistan will get the tournament underway today at the Diamond Oval in Kimberley. Zimbabwe are in Group C and they play their first match against Bangladesh tomorrow at the Senwes Park in Potchefstroom.
The youth team will have their final practice session this afternoon at the JB Marks Oval. Coach Utseya yesterday told The Herald that he was satisfied with the way his charges handled their last leg of the preparations in South Africa during the last two weeks. Zimbabwe squad
Dion Myers (captain), Wesley Madhevere (vice captain), Emmanuel Bawa, Privilege Chesa, Gareth Chirawu, Ahomed Rameez Ebrahim, Dylan Grant, Sakhumuzi Ndlela, Tadiwanashe Marumani, Tadiwanashe Nyangani, Luke Oldknow, Dane Schadendorf, Milton Shumba, Taurayi Tugwete, Nkosilathi Nungu.