The Herald Michael Tome Business Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S Poverty Datum Line (PDL) for an average family of five reached $3 700 last November, a 15,7 percent rise from October’s $3 160, latest data released by the Zimbabwe National Statistics Agency (Zimstats) revealed. According to ZimStats, the Total Consumption Poverty Line (TCPL) is a combination of food and non-food items that an average family requires for it not to be deemed poor. While the latest figures come at a time when a substantial number of working Zimbabweans are earning less than the Total Consumption Poverty Line, it is important to note that it stands for the combined income of the family of five with some families having more than one individual’s source of income. In the released numbers, Total Consumption Poverty Line (TCPL) for an average of five persons per household stood at $3 656 in November 2019, while Food Poverty Line (FPL) for one person in the same month stood at $327, which is a 20,6 percent increase in comparison to the October 2019 cost of $271,48. Subsequently, the Food Poverty Line (FPL) for a family of five in November 2019 increased to $1 637, which likewise represented an increase of 20,6 percent from the October figure. Tallying of these numbers uses the per capita consumption expenditure, and an average of five people is used based on the average size of households. This January’s cost of living for families with children of school going age is anticipated to grow sharply given that school fees and accessories have also quadrupled in price. The Poverty Datum Line differs as prices vary from place to place. In Matabeleland North, Total Consumption Poverty Line for a family of five in the month of November stood at $4 048. Matabeland South was the second most expensive province demanding $3 893, whilst Mashonaland Central was the cheapest requiring $3 261 for a family with aforementioned number of people. The capital city, Harare wrapped up the period as the third most expensive province in the country with a family of five demanding $3 800 for total requirements. The Poverty Datum Line  represents the cost of a given standard of living that must be attained if a person is deemed not poor and an individual whose total consumption expenditure does not exceed the Food Poverty Line is deemed to be very poor.