The Herald Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter
ZIMBABWEAN women are continuously penetrating previously male-dominated fields, including biking.
Biking has always been considered as man’s domain, but of late, courageous and bold women have been making inroads into the sport, showing their male counterparts that they can do it. On Saturday, a nine-member all-women’s biking team comprising five Zimbabweans — Pauline Dana, Chengetai Makawa, Cynthia Ncube, Natasha Mutsvairo, Nomathemba Magwaza — one Belgian, one Canadian and two South Africans paid a courtesy visit on First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa at the First Family’s farm in Kwekwe. The female bikers got a photo opportunity with the country’s leaders as well as some words of encouragement from President Mnangagwa and Vice President Constantino Chiwenga who were present at the farm. The First Lady was left spell-bound by the bikers who provided her with escort services from her farm to the main road, while they mesmerised onlookers with their amazing skills. Amai Mnangagwa has a passion for female empowerment and has been working hard to ensure women contribute meaningfully to the country’s economic development. The First Lady has been supporting women in sports. As a mother, the bikers’ visit made her joyful and she could hardly contain her happiness. The female bikers, who are representing their countries, are on a six-day relay covering 2 000 kilometres.
“It’s all-women bikers and they escorted me along Sherwood Road,” said the First Lady. “A very good programme done by these courageous women. Women have entered this male-dominated area.”
The First Lady said women should not look down upon themselves because they were equally capable of doing jobs and participating in sports previously dominated by men. “This encourages, strengthens, makes your mind to react quickly and solve any problems encountered in life because this programme is mind-opening and coming out of the box and widens one’s horizon,” she said.
The First Lady gave the women words of encouragement and wished them well on their journey. Natasha, who spoke on behalf of the bikers, described their engagement with the First Lady, President Mnangagwa and Vice President Chiwenga as awesome.
“The meeting was awesome,” she said. “It’s good to just have that support, especially from mhamha. As women bikers, it was our wish to meet the First Lady who has always been rallying behind women. “We are glad we did. Just knowing that she is supporting women motivates us. We are happy that the First Lady allowed us to escort her motorcade. “Zimbabwe is one of the seven African countries participating in this relay. We picked the button in Botswana and will pass it on in Tete.” Asked why she took up a risky sport like biking, Natasha quipped: “It makes me spend more time with my husband, who is also a biker. You live life once. Follow your dreams, enjoy life while you can, be safe always and let’s ride.”
Natasha said President Mnangagwa and Vice President Chiwenga encouraged them to push forward. “The fact that the country is represented made them happy,” she said.
“They are so proud of us.”
Natasha spoke about the need to observe road rules and drive at safe speeds to make the country’s roads safe.
She encouraged other women bikers to always wear the correct riding gear while on the road and not to drink and ride. The women bikers, who are on a six-day relay, started off in Botswana last Thursday, rode to Bulawayo, Gweru and Harare. The journey will take them to Nyamapanda then to Tete where they will pass the button to another all-female group of riders from Malawi.