The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
NGEZI Platinum Stars are leaving nothing to chance as they bid to challenge for the 2020 Castle Lager Premiership football title with the Mhondoro club set to tour South Africa as part of their preparations. The platinum miners have come agonisingly close to landing the title in the past few years with the “Midas touch” eluding them at the most crucial stage of the campaigns. Though club secretary-general Cloete Munjoma yesterday said they were still to finalise on the path the team would take this pre-season, it has since been established the team will spend two weeks in South Africa. They are scheduled to engage both top-flight and lower division teams during the tour. “We are still finalising on how we will tackle our pre-season preparations. There is nothing concrete yet as we are still deliberating,” said Munjoma. Ngezi believe the 2020 season presents them with a chance to end a four-year wait given the way coach Rodwell Dhlakama has assembled his squad. Whilst the team has to let go some of their best players including the club’s top scorer last season, Donald Teguru, Ngezi have made some marquee signings this off-season with the league’s most feared midfielder, Denver Mukamba, arriving from Chapungu. The team is also understood to be on the verge of securing 2019 Soccer Star of the Year finalist Wellington Taderera from Black Rhinos. The Chapungu pair of Blessed Mbavarira and Ian Nyoni could also find themselves at the flamboyant side where they will be reunited with their former mentor. And the miners’ chairman, Jeremiah Gasitene, has stepped down in what is widely seen as a step towards winning the championship. Gasitene has been in charge of the club since their promotion into the top-flight in 2016 and winning that year’s Chibuku Super Cup remains their biggest achievement to date. Silence Gavi, who has been Gasitene’s deputy for the past four years, takes over the reins at the ambitious side. Gavi’s position will now be taken by club general secretary Munjoma who has adopted the dual roles. In a media statement yesterday, Ngezi vice-president Busi Chindove saluted Gasitene for serving the club well. “Ngezi Platinum Stars wishes to announce the stepping down of Jeremiah Gasitene as the club chairman after a largely successful four years at the administrative helm of the club. “He leaves behind a legacy of professionalism, fair play and dedication to the club. During his tenure as chairman, Jeremiah achieved his targets of ensuring that the club establishes and cements its status as a competitive outfit in the Premiership,” said Chindove. Ngezi Platinum also went on a pre-season tour of South Africa last year.