The Herald Ellina Mhlanga,Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Handball Federation can now get their preparations for the hosting for the IHF Trophy Zone Six in full swing following approval by the Sports Commission for them to hold the event in April. The national federation got the right to host the regional tournament following a successful bid last year. They then engaged the Sports Commission as part of the procedure for national associations when they want to host such international events. ZHF made submissions of the required documents to the Sports Commission, which included the confirmation letter from their International Handball Federation to the effect that Zimbabwe won the bid to host the tournament and a letter confirming funding from the international body. The Sports Commission also looks at the benefits that are brought by hosting such events and it appears they were satisfied with ZHF’s submission resulting in the approval. This was confirmed in a letter by Sports Commission’s sport development manager Martin Dururu to the national handball mother-body on Tuesday. “After the submission you made in respect of the above event, the Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) hereby grants you authority to host the International Handball Federation (IHF) Trophy (Zone 6) scheduled for 25th to 30th of April, 2020. “As such, you are encouraged to establish and maintain constant communication with the invited countries and also that you furnish the SRC with regular written updates pertaining to your preparations to organise the event. “It is expected that delegates from the SRC shall at some point be invited to some of your Organising Committee meetings to ensure that we get to appreciate the conditions under which you operate as well as any challenges you may encounter in the quest to put together a successful event,” reads the letter. ZHF secretary general Edson Chirowodza said they appreciate the support from the Sports Commission. “We appreciate the approval and support by the Sports and Recreation Commission. It’s something of course we were expecting because the tournament is fully funded. “So we were also expecting that they give us support based on that the tournament is fully funded in terms of accommodation and travel for all teams. So we really appreciate that they have given that approval,” Chirowodza said.