The Herald George Maponga Masvingo Bureau Lowveld sugar cane farmers have donated sugar and food hampers to Angel of Hope Foundation for onward distribution to vulnerable families across Masvingo by the organisation’s patron, First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa. The First Lady is scheduled to visit Chivi this week where she will meet vulnerable families. Commercial Sugar Cane Farmers Association of Zimbabwe (CSFAZ) chair Mr Admore Hwarare last Friday handed over one tonne of sugar and food hampers to Minister of State for Masvingo Ezra Chadzamira ahead of Amai Mnangagwa’s visit. Mr Hwarare said sugar cane farmers were charmed by the First Lady’s charity work through her Angel of Hope Foundation. The cane farmers pledged to support the  Zanu PF Government which gave Zimbabweans land under the land redistribution programme. “As sugar cane farmers who were empowered by the Zanu PF Government, we have mobilised sugar for our First Lady’s charity work through her Angel of Hope Foundation and the sugar is enough to make sure 500 people get 2kg each,” said Mr Hwarare. “We have also mobilised food hampers (containing soap, washing powder, kapenta fish, cooking oil and salt) that will be handed over to the First Lady for onward distribution to the most vulnerable families. “We stand ready any day and any time to do anything for the Zanu PF Government because they gave us land. “Today we stand tall because we are empowered and the national leadership should not hesitate to call on us for anything in future.” In response, Minister Chadzamira was full of praise for the gesture by Mr Hwarare and his association, urging more companies to follow suit. He said Masvingo had many people from different spheres who had been empowered by Government and should lend a hand for the cause of charity. “We want to thank sugar cane farmers for this donation which complements the First Lady’s charity work through her Angel of Hope Foundation targeting mainly to uplift the lives of the vulnerable,” said Minister Chadzamira. “It is our hope that many other organisations across the province will follow suit and also donate towards the cause of charity ahead of the First Lady’s visit to the province this    week.” CSFAZ is arguably the largest new cane farmers’ organisation in the Lowveld with a membership of over 600.