The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS coach Mark Harrison says the Premiership football club’s sound philosophy resonates well with his own and that is one of the key reasons he ended up accepting a role at the helm of the Bulawayo giants. Harrison parted ways with Harare City in July last year and retraced to his Nottingham base in England. But, half-a-year on, he is back in the country where he says the prospect of coaching one of the biggest clubs in Zimbabwe largely attracted him. “Highlanders is the biggest football club in the country with a massive fan base. That particularly attracted me to the team,” said Harrison. The former CAPS United gaffer said he is aware of the demands at a club which last won the league title in 2006. “I am at the club to win the Premiership. I have to help them achieve their aim and if not this season then it has to be next year.” Harrison’s love for experienced players is well-documented and is understood to be interested in taking aboard Kuda Musharu and Martin Vengesayi from Harare City. Highlanders are unlikely able to retain their most-prized asset, Prince Dube, who is undergoing trials in China. Harrison is sweating and looking around to find an appropriate replacement in the event that Dube nails a contract in the Asian country. Already, the team is negotiating with several players who were recommended by the British gaffer including Musharu. Yadah forward Ralph Matema could as well re-join Bosso. “Obviously, as a coach, I have particular players who I want brought at the club. The team is negotiating with them but until they put pen to paper, it would be wrong to mention their names. “Highlanders play with flair. They pass the ball and that is one of the reasons why they always attract bumper crowds at their matches. “The club’s philosophy resonates well with my own and there is no ideal place to be than being at Bosso. “I have a very good foundation at the club. So many enterprising players at the team and what we need to do as a team going forward is to work hard. “We need to be competitive as a team, address some flaws and go forward powerfully. “The club is quite massive and we need to prove it in the field of play. We need to work very hard, win matches and smile again.” Bosso had hoped to retain Dutch mentor Hendrikus Pieter de Jongh who was, however, snatched by champions FC Platinum.