The Herald Kundai Marunya,Arts Correspondent First generation sculptor Sylvester Mubayi’s legacy is in safe hands as most of his children are following their father’s footsteps with son Shelton leading the way. With a NAMA award to boast of and several local and international exhibitions Shelton has already joined an elite group of visual artists whose names are celebrated in their sector. He did not let his father’s brilliance shadow him, but used it as a stepping stone and motivation in building his own career. Today, he celebrates his 44th birthday reflecting back on his largely successful career. “The year 1989, when I was 13 years old, was the turning point in my career because at that early age, I used to watch my father sculpt at the same time trying my own hand using chip offs,” said Shelton. “Though I didn’t produce works of good quality, I knew that with such a beginning I would one day be able to make creative pieces.” His father became his foremost inspiration and he takes every opportunity to express his appreciation. Shelton said he is also inspired by nature while many of his works are themed around women. “My works are inspired by women as they are king makers, so I sculpt them as a way of paying homage. “I also do abstracts and some animals on creation form.” Shelton said even with an iconic father he faced many challenges in developing his career. “It has been a bumpy road but with support from fellow artists I have come this far. “I also credit the National Art Gallery of Zimbabwe, National Arts Council of Zimbabwe, the Ministry of Arts for my success,” he said. Among the challenges he was facing was lack of access to markets. “Access to markets and lack of pertinent information on cultural expos and functions in various countries remains a challenge for many sculptors.” Shelton solely lives off his art. Part of his income comes from hosting foreign and local sculpture enthusiasts at his Chitungwiza home where they are taught the art. “I can accommodate up to four persons in our township house. I also hold sculpture workshops, accommodating up to 12 people per session, providing them with tools and workspace.” Shelton’s future aspirations include establishing an exchange programme. “Instead of only going to Europe to impart our skills, let’s lure people here, where we can boost domestic and community based tourism,” he said.