The Herald Grace Chingoma Sports Reporter
MALAWI Under-20 women’s football coach has promised to “burn” Zimbabwe’s Young Mighty Warriors this afternoon when the two teams meet in the Women’s World Cup first leg qualifier.
The match is at 3pm at Kamuzu Stadium in Blantyre. The Malawian Football Association scrapped fees to enable many supporters to throng the stadium and support the home team. However, veteran Zimbabwean coach and former Mighty Warriors mentor Rosemary Mugadza is keeping her cards close to her chest. Mugadza believes the Malawian side remains a threat despite that they have just assembled for the first time ever at this level.
But Malawi coach Maggie Chombo Sadiki told the Malawian media that they are ready to make an impression “The girls are ready to show Malawians their capabilities on the pitch. By making entry to the game free of charge, FAM has made it easy for more Malawians to appreciate their skills. We will burn Zimbabwe come Saturday afternoon,” said coach Sadiki . Although Malawi have 10 players that played at the Zone VI Games in Botswana in 2018, the Young Mighty Warriors are a step ahead after reaching the semi-finals of the inaugural Under-20 COSAFA Championships in South Africa last year. Mugadza’s charges lost to South Africa in a penalty shoot-out after the match had ended in a 1-1 stalemate in regulation time.
The Harare City coach has maintained the bulk of that team which she assembled for COSAFA, only adding four new players to the team she travelled with to Malawi on Thursday. Yesterday, Mugadza said they have trained at the match venue and are ready for the tie.
It rained yesterday, but the match is on an artificial turf . “We travelled well, did our stretches and ice bath in the morning (yesterday) as part of our loosening. The girls are ready for the match. “We should defend and attack as a team. But we will be cautious in the first half and encourage our players to keep possession.”
Zimbabwe will host Malawi in the reverse tie at Barbourfields on February 1. The World Cup will be held in Costa Rica and Panama in August.
Zimbabwe junior women’s soccer teams are currently involved in the World Cup continental qualifiers.
The Under-17 Young Mighty Warriors have already played their first leg away in Gaborone and lost 5-0. They host the Batswana side next weekend at Barbourfields. The result cost the rookie Young Mighty Warriors coach Garthly Chipuka his job after he was relieved of his duties yesterday.
ZIFA technical director Wilson Mtekede yesterday confirmed the development. “Chipuka has been withdrawn from the Under-17 team and replaced by Langton Giwa,” said Mtekede.
The former Bulawayo Chiefs mentor Chipuka said he was not aware why he was axed ahead of the return leg. “I also don’t know why I was dropped from the technical team. I was just informed that I was being temporarily withdrawn,” said Chipuka. Giwa is a veteran women’s football coach who has previously headed with success the Under-20 technical team and also served as the Mighty Warriors assistant coach. Probable team
Melissa Chinwadzimba, Rudo Magwaza, Annie Ndura, Rennie Mudimu, Nothando Mthunzi, Sharon Teterai, Natalie Murove, Tinotenda Sakara, Beata Chako, Shyline Dambamuromo, Precious Baison.