The Herald Social influencers are now increasingly turning their social media platforms into business investments.
A social media influencer is anyone with influence on any social media platforms like Twitter, a large blog leadership, a highly popular YouTube channel or an Instagram account. Typically influencers tend to have cross platform influence.
Kylie Jenner, Mufti Ismail Menk, Munya Chawawa, Tuffy Sibanda, Genius “Ginimbi” Kadungure, Blake Samson, DJ Towers, Ray Vines, MisRed, the Kardashians and Pokello are some of the social media influencers in Zimbabwe. These use their social media platforms to generate some business by generating conversation, driving engagement and setting cultural trends. Influencers are early adopters of new products and services, creating desire among their audiences.
This can make the influencers to get business contacts from companies who engage them to advertise brands.
The loyalty an influencer builds with his or her audience often translates into increased product sales. Some influencers end up establishing sufficient influence on product lines.
The influencers enjoy a strong personal brand even if they do not sell anything. Samantha Musa, popularly known as MisRed, is a radio personality, social influencer, philanthropist, brand ambassador, events MC, host, as well as TV presenter. She embarked on an online business promotion initiative for young entrepreneurs dubbed “Red Market Sunday” to give young people an opportunity to market their projects. The initiative has seen the growth of her following in the business world, with many established business people viewing her programme to spot investment opportunities. Her expansion is an indicator of the growing influence of social media.
Social media influencer, Tawanda Marimbe a.k.a DJ Towers said he had great impact and influence on his followers and audience. “I have changed the lifestyle of a number of young people through paying for their school fees, buying them clothes and getting them some basics they might need in life,” he said. DJ Towers states that his private life and business investments have been on a high note because he is a social media influencer. “I managed to start horticulture at my plot which is located between Masvingo and Mvuma, bought a stand in Domboshava, a car, installed a solar system at my house and I also have an online advertising platform,” stated DJ Towers.
He opened up that the entire of what he has achieved came from his followers and fans. “All that I have mentioned, the material things and also the businesses I have started were from the help I got from my followers and fans”, said DJ Towers. Even though social media influencers have material things and business investments, they face some challenges including fake love from some of the followers.
DJ Towers received a car from a local business man who appreciated his work on social media. He feels the need to get married but is afraid that he might not have the same vision with his dream girl.
“Most of my friends and age mates are now married and I feel left out. The problem is I am afraid that the girl I want as a wife does not have the same vision with me,” said DJ Towers. He said he is a motivational speaker, manager and a promoter.
“As a social media influencer I am someone who motivates and lifts people up when I talk to individuals, I promote brands and currently am managing a young lady — Hunnyboo,” said DJ Towers. Admire Kuzhangaira popularly known as Bhutisi in the comedy show “P.O. Box Reloaded” is another social media influencer, actor and comedian. Bhutisi said through the comedy show they had not invested much into their business besides getting cameras and sound systems which they bought using their own money. “We did not invest much in the business, all we did was to buy cameras and sound systems which was approximately US$3 000. We do not have to invest because all we need is our social media pages which we log-in using our own gadgets,” he said. He is the co-founder of “P.O Box” and has put impact on his followers as other people have started running their own pages.
Their brand has grown as they operate as a marketing tool and they try to instil ideas in people in a humorous manner. He said: “We use comedy as a marketing strategy and a number of companies have engaged us. We communicate with people in a humorous manner and even if we want to address an issue which might make people sad, there will be some humour in it.”
Social media influencer, Marshal Shonhiwa said he only invested his time on his social media platforms.
“I invested five years as a social media influencer and no money was involved,” said Shonhiwa. “I do not believe in followers, I post my messages to the audience, that is all and I have gained a huge network in entertainment and events planning,” he said. “A lot of bloggers are coming up and they have news for the people and this is a challenge because the audience will end up not knowing which news to believe.”