The Herald Panashe Chikonyora|
The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) has embraced Bloomberg’s move to name the country as one of the World’s 24 Best 2020 Travel Destinations, saying it will strengthen its base as a tourist resort. This comes after the country recently hosted UEFA president Mr Aleksander Ceferin and his family. Zimbabwe was named one of the 24 Best Travel Destinations in 2020 by Bloomberg — an international publication this week. The recognition comes at a very critical time when the destination has been experiencing negative publicity from the international media with speculations of one of the country’s popular resort — the Victoria Falls being suggested to be running dry. Speaking on behalf of the tourism authority ZTA’s head of corporate affairs, Mr Godfrey Koti, appreciated Bloomberg’s support, saying it is a motivation to the country’s development. “As ZTA we are elated; we are excited to be named as one of the 24 must-visit destinations by Bloomberg. Bloomberg is a much respected publication, internationally its playing right up there with the big boys so it’s something that’s great, that’s encouraging for the destination considering the fact that we are coming from a very bad spate of publicity about our Victoria Falls being reported as dry — which unfortunately is very untrue. “Yes, we acknowledge as a destination that there is a lot of climate change issues that we need to deal with, but they are not peculiar to Zimbabwe, this is a world phenomenon that the global community has to engage and forge a way forward together. As far as this endorsement is concerned it is an attest to the fact that Zimbabwe is still a first choice destination and that it is among the best out of the entire world. We find ourselves being endorsed by a very strong brand such as Bloomberg,” he revealed. “We are looking forward to more endorsements and this means we can move forward as a country,” added Mr Koti. Meanwhile, Mr Ceferin promised to market the country, expressing dismay towards the negative publicity on Zimbabwe. He visited four different resorts — Victoria Falls, Hwange, Great Zimbabwe and the Eastern Highlands. ZTA acknowledged the visit, which it said enabled Mr Ceferin to witness the destination’s conditions himself. “We are delighted and we would like to thank him and his family for having stopped by Zimbabwe and this is testimony to the fact that Zimbabwe is certainly a destination that one can really enjoy. “It’s an attest to the fact that we are a destination of choice and that we are a must-visit destination as a country,” Mr Koti alluded, giving closing remarks at Mr Caferin’s send-off dinner, held recently.