The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Happy New Year dear readers, hopefully you are all geared for 2020. I am hoping too that you already set your resolutions and this time you take them seriously compared to previous years. Again there is a rush on back to school, with schools opening on Tuesday. January seems to be the busiest month of the year considering there is a lot happening and catching up but that does not allow you to leave the room improperly dressed. Many people have started work with some still looking for jobs. Have you, however, considered the fact that sometimes your Curriculum Vitae might have everything needed including highest degree certificates but there is one thing missing — presentation? Presentation, presentation, presentation! Appearance. When looking for a job, you need to dress properly. I bumped into some of the interns at my work place who were impressed with how I looked. Well, as a fashion icon, I dress the part and some began to feel intimidated with the power suit that I was wearing but believe you me, I made them calm down and just gave them some tips. “If you are looking or coming for a job interview and are dressed the part, trust me you will exude confidence.” This then led me to focus on dressing for an interview this week and to highlight the importance of a power shirt — the white shirt. We all know that it is important to make a good first impression at a job interview and that your choice of interview attire is a big part of that. Frankly speaking, dressing for job interviews is a lot more complicated than it used to be because you need to understand the job first. You can’t go to a mine job interview where it is known that even the director does not wear a suit and you go there wearing your Armani suit. When in doubt, dress up a little as they say, because dress codes vary. It is important to get a sense of the corporate culture before you head into the interview, to make sure that your attire is appropriate. However, regardless of what everyone else at the company is wearing, it is essential to take particular care with your appearance during a job interview. The candidate dressed in a suit and tie, or dress and heels, will usually make a much better impression than the candidate dressed in jeans and sneakers. You also need to learn more about what to wear for a corporate position and what to wear for a more laid-back casual position. In both cases, being well-groomed with clean, untattered clothes is always required. If you are going for a job interview at a company in a traditional industry such as the banking, or insurance, you should opt for more formal corporate attire. In general, this means a suit and tie for men and a pant-suit or skirt and blouse for women. The best interview outfits for men in the corporate world tend to be conservative. Men should always default to wearing a suit according to Balance Careers. All clothes should fit well and be free of stains. Wear a suit in a solid colour such as navy, black, or dark gray and make sure you have a long-sleeved shirt that is white or colour co-ordinated, paired with a leather belt and a tie. Because of fashion trends, many men resort to being stylish but when it comes to job seeking that does not count. Wear dark socks and conservative leather shoes. Avoid happy socks or loafers otherwise you end up looking like a clown. I know most people love jewellery, you can have just a little or no jewellery at all. For women, in general, interview fashion for corporate jobs is more complicated and varied than it is for men. The increased options make assembling an interview outfit a bit more challenging for women than for men. Women also need to consider interview accessories and choose an appropriate purse. The best interview bags are ones that are professional and large enough to fit a resume but are not flashy like you are going for a wedding. The best colour suits to wear for an interview are navy, black, or dark gray and make sure your skirt is just below or slightly above the knee with a well co-ordinated blouse, shoes and obvious limited jewellery like men. Remember it is a job interview so you do not want to be misinterpreted or misrepresenting yourself as you may end up being called names. No to very large dangling earrings or arms full of bracelets and your hairstyle should be professional. Many women nowadays are donning make-up so try to put on light makeup and a limited amount of perfume. Still many question the power of a white shirt. Be informed —  a white shirt is a
must-have. The psychological meaning of white is purity, innocence, wholeness and completion. Everyone should have at least one good quality, clean, crisp, fresh, white shirt in his wardrobe. A white shirt is one of the foundation pieces of any men’s dressing repertoire. It is an indispensable item that virtually can go with every outfit from casual to formal, from a black suit to a pair of jeans, its one of those few truly versatile items of clothing that goes with pretty much anything.