The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
THIS week, African women’s football has been abuzz with transfer news with the biggest story being that of CAF 2018 Player of the Year Thembi Kgatlana. The South African forward joined Benfica Feminino as women’s football on the continent continues to make strides. Kenyan midfielder, Corazon Aquino, also moved to Portuguese side Atletico Ouriense on a one-year deal. She became the second African player, after Mozambican Lucia Leila, to join the club this month. Nigerian forward, Uchenna Kanu, joined Spanish side Sevilla this week. These success stories, coming in the week the Young Mighty Warriors lost a World Cup qualifier 0-7 on aggregate, makes some sad reading. One still wonders what has gone wrong with women football which, just four years ago, wrote a beautiful story by competing at the Olympics. Some of the Mighty Warriors players were invited for trials in Europe, Germany and Sweden. Former Mighty Warriors midfielder Ruvimbo Mutyavaviri spent three months on attachment at Swedish club Kalmar FF. The following year Mighty Warriors midfielder, Marjoury Nyaumwe and goalkeeper Onai Chingawo, went for a 10-day attachment with a First Bundesliga team. But, as continental stars are sealing high-profile transfers, Zimbabwean players can only watch from a distance. The Mighty Warriors’ brand has faded and their junior team, the Under-17 side, crumbled like a deck of cards after losing 0-5 to Botswana in Gaborone. The final nail was hammered at Barbourfields on Sunday when they lost 0-2 in the reverse tie. The Under-20 side host Malawi this Saturday at Barbourfields. The Malawians played friendly match against Zambia this week. The Under-20 team coach, Rosemary Mugadza, was this week certified by the continental body and is now a CAF instructor. “CAF is delighted to announce that you have successfully completed your Women Instructor of Instructors training. ‘’To differentiate the instructors, we divided them into four categories: Regional A, Regional B, Regional C and Local depending on the assessment made. “This letter is an official document appointment for you as Regional C Instructor for a period of one year. ‘’During this period you will be called to carry out tasks at local level, to participate in refresher women courses, to participate in CAF Women activities and at the end of the above mentioned period, you will be subject to a new evaluation,” wrote CAF acting secretary general Anthony Baffoe.