The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter AFRICA’s youngest country, South Sudan, have put aside more than US$25 million towards the construction of a new state-of-the-art 35 000-seater stadium in capital Juba. The move is set to boost the country’s growing status as a serious footballing nation. The only recognised venue in the oil-rich country, the old Juba Stadium which accommodates 12 000 fans, is also set for a major face-lift which will see its carrying capacity expanded to 19 000. The South Sudan Football Association are expanding the old Juba Stadium under the @ FIFA Forward Support. The refurbishment is scheduled to be completed in eight months’ time. South Sudan are not chasing a place at the 2021 AFCON and 2022 FIFA World Cup finals after they were eliminated in the early stages of both qualifiers. While the nation, ranked 169th on the FIFA Rankings, are busy putting measures which will see them in total compliance with the CAF Club Licensing requirements, Zimbabwean teams could play home games away from home. Only Barbourfields partially passed the  test conducted by the CAF grounds inspectors last month. The National Sports Stadium, Rufaro and Mandava were all condemned. The Warriors resume their 2021 AFCON campaign in March this year when they play Algeria away before hosting the continental champions in June. They will also get their 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign in October. They were drawn in Group G alongside South Africa, Ghana and Ethiopia in the draw held in Egypt on Tuesday. If the lighting at Barbourfieds is not addressed, and the Warriors have a home match in the evening, they will be forced to play those matches outside the country. ZIFA spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela, said they were engaging the Government to come up with a solution before the Warriors host Algeria in June. ‘’We definitely need to move swiftly, not as ZIFA but as a country, to have all the abnormalities addressed, as a matter of urgency,” said Gwesela. “At the moment, we are in the process of engaging the government to map a way forward. ‘’Although, we can alternatively use Barbourfields Stadium, which was conditionally cleared, we still need to do more to make sure the National Sports Stadium is ready by the time we host Algeria.’’