The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S top motor rally driver, Conrad Rautenbach, is enjoying his place in the sun at the ongoing Dakar Rally in Saudi Arabia after he ended the fifth stage of this year’s event in third position yesterday. Rautenbach and his Portuguese navigator, Pedro Bianchi Prata, were in third place behind French driver Cyril Depres, who won the stage in 4hrs 40mins 43sec. Depres is teaming up with South African-born Swiss explorer Michael Horn. In second place was the Polish duo of Aaron Domzala and Maciej Marton, who were second in a tight finish. Then came Rautenbach and Patra, who are racing for the PH-Sport team four minutes and 41 seconds adrift of the winners in the SSV Category of the Dakar Rally, which ends on January 17. Another Zimbabwean, Graeme Sharp, who is making his debut appearance at the Dakar Rally in the bikes’ section, had a rather low-key outing yesterday after encountering mechanical challenges with his engine and finished the stage in 92nd position. “Guys, have I said that this is tough before? Unfortunately, I had some mechanical issues today so lost time because of that, and I’m frustrated as I think I missed another way point too. “But otherwise the stage was lots of fun and a good challenge. Tomorrow (today) is going to be a mammoth day in the saddle and then we get a rest day after that!” said Sharp. On two wheels, Aussie defending Dakar champion Toby Price (KTM) took the lead after 100km and never looked back, taking the day’s win from fellow factory riders, Husqvarna duo, Chilean Pablo Quintanilla and US lad Andrew Short, Californian overall leader Ricky Brabec (Honda), Austrian Mattias Walkner (KTM) and Spain’s Joan Barreda Bort on another Honda. Botswana’s Dakar hero, Ross Branch, was once again the first privateer home in seventh after a steady day on his KTM. Kirsten Landman was the next Southern African rider home in 70th with fellow SA lady racer Taye Perry 11 minutes behind her in 74th, no assistance rider Stuart Gregory 86th and Zimbabwe’’s Graeme Sharp 92nd. Overall, Brabec leads Price by nine minutes with Benavides and Quintanilla next up, while Monday’s winner, Branch, made good progress to move up four more places to 14th after his painful tumble on Tuesday. One of the race favourites, Sam Sunderland, crashed out yesterday to join fellow bikers Xavier de Soultrait, Ivan Jakeš and Daniel Albero Puig, all of whom withdrew on Wednesday. Today ends the first week of Dakar 2020 with a 477km race up to the Saudi capital Riyadh for the rest day tomorrow.