The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
FORMER Zimbabwe Cricket chairman, Peter Chingoka, was so obsessed with cricket he studied for his law degree while watching the game. This was revealed by his brother Patrick in Harare yesterday at a function to honour the late administrator.
The Chairman’s Enclosure at Harare Sports Club has now been named after him.
It will now be known as Peter Chingoka Balcony. Chingoka died on August 22 last year at the age of 65.
Tavengwa Mukuhlani, the ZC boss, paid tribute to his predecessor.
Mukuhlani said Chingoka was a legend, who has been part of the development of Zimbabwe cricket for several decades, as a player and administrator.
“Peter played a pivotal role in bringing full Membership and Test status to Zimbabwe,’’ said Mukuhlani.
“He played a pivotal role in developing and nurturing young cricketers across the racial divide. “I am not a keen history student but one thing I have realised is that when you lead people, you must not distort history and this occasion today makes the history of Zimbabwe Cricket correct. “We stand here to rename the Chairman’s Enclosure, which was built when Peter was chairman when we hosted our group games in the 2003 World Cup.’’
He said the late ZC boss deserved the honour. “We found it befitting that the place, that was his second home, be renamed Peter Chingoka Balcony,’’ said Mukuhlani.
“When you go to the ICC offices in Dubai, each room is named to one of the cricket legends. “The same obtains if you go to the Lords, there is history. We would have failed in our leadership at ZC if we do not honour one of our own.’’ The renaming event was attended by Chingoka’s widow, Shirley, the late ZC boss’ family members and former colleagues and friends of the administrator. Members of the cricket community, and the ZC leadership, were also represented.
Chingoka’s brother, Patrick, said the family were honoured by the gesture shown by ZC. “I would like to say thank you for the kind words that you said about my brother, a father, husband called Peter,’’ said Patrick.
“In fact, we couldn’t have said it more than you. You lived with him, you saw him reacting to situations and fights which we never saw at home but you managed to capture that. “As a family we feel greatly honoured. We have no words to express ourselves with respect to what ZC has done to our brother.
“We knew Peter as a cricket person. In fact, this (Harare Sports Club) is not his second home but his first home. When he was studying for his Law degree, you will be surprised he didn’t do it at home. “He came and studied here watching cricket. He was a cricket fan and everything about him was cricket. He enjoyed watching the boys play. We say thank you ZC for the honour bestowed on Peter, as a family we cherish this day.’’ The late Chingoka was one of the first black cricketers to play at a high level and was captain of the South African African XI that played in the Gillette Cup knock-out competition in 1975-76 and 1976-77. He was also among the earliest black people to hold the position of influence in cricket after he was appointed vice-president of the then Zimbabwe Cricket Union in 1990 before replacing Dave Ellman-Brown as president in 1992. Chingoka led the association for 22 years before he quit the ZC chairmanship in 2014 and was replaced by Wilson Manase.