The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
TRIATHLON coach, Pamela Fulton, says her nomination — together with three athletes for various categories for the 2019 edition of the Annual National Sports Awards — is exciting after the hard work they put in. Fulton was nominated for the Coach of the Year award alongside senior netball team coach Lloyd Makunde and Owen Makuruwa for athletics (Special Olympics). African Games silver medalist, Laurelle Brown, is vying for the Sportswoman of the Year together with Regina Jonga from body-building and long-distance runner Rutendo Nyahora. The pair of Matthew Denslow and Andie Kuipers will battle for the Junior Sportsman of the Year and Junior Sportswoman of the Year. They both competed in a number of events last year and Denslow won gold at the Bonaqua ATU Junior African men’s race in Nyanga. Kuipers picked a bronze medal at the African Games in Morocco. She also competed at the ITU World Triathlon Grand Final in Switzerland last year. Denslow and Kuipers were both part of the mixed relay team that got a silver medal at the Africa Championships. For Fulton, the nominations are a reflection of the work they have been doing for the promotion of the sport. “Triathlon we got four nominations, junior men, junior women, coach for myself, which is really exciting and, also Laurelle Brown, for senior women. “I think this is fantastic for triathlon, we have been working really hard on our strategic plan and preparing for the future. “And, I think all the planning, all the hard work on planning we have been putting in is beginning to pay off now, supporting our athletes as much as we can and trying to keep them on the sport. “For Laurelle to have just come back into racing, after about five years of being in university, and for her to be nominated for Sportswoman of the Year, that’s really exciting. “And, for myself, after years of being coach and working really hard on the development side, I feel really excited and, at long last, all the hard work is paying off so,” said Fulton. Fulton said they were happy for the young athletes whose dream is making it for the 2024 Olympic Games. “With Mat, we are very excited about him getting this nomination. He has now just left Zimbabwe and gone off to South Africa to train with one of the top coaches there in preparation for 2024. “And Andie Kuipers, great for her. She has been nominated as top sport assistant at school, so she is going to be really busy with helping at school taking sessions. “But that’s a huge accolade for her. She might not have as much time as she has for training for herself, and going to as many tours, as she did last year. “But she is excited for that. “She is still as committed and keen for triathlon and going to Paris 2024, that’s still her dream and goal,” Fulton said.