The Herald Collin Matiza,Sports Editor ONE of Zimbabwe’s top junior motocross riders, Emmanuel Bako, has gone back hunting for more success on the South African circuit. He will compete in the opening round of the 2020 Inland Championship at ERORA track just outside Johannesburg today. This championship will feature 12 rounds which have been spread from this month up to November 14, with the opening round set to take place today at ERORA which is based in Kempton Park. Today’s meet at ERORA is also part of South Africa’s Northern Inter-provincial Championship. It will bring together some of that country’s top junior and senior riders who will be jostling for the top honours in the different classes that they will be competing in as the 2020 motocross season gets underway across the Limpopo. And, among the riders, will be Zimbabwe’s teenage sensation Bako (13) who this year has graduated to ride from the 85cc small wheel to 85cc big wheel class. He will also be competing in the 125cc Class this season both in Zimbabwe and South Africa. Speaking to The Herald shortly before his departure for Johannesburg yesterday afternoon, Bako said he was looking forward to the opening race of his 2020 campaign in the South African motocross circuit. “I’m now a household name in the South African motocross circuit and I’m now familiar with the terrain there as I’ve now raced in almost every track in the Gauteng Province and I’m determined to produce some good results at ERORA this weekend. “ERORA is one of my favourite tracks in South Africa and if all goes well this weekend, I will definitely fish out a top place on the podium in either the 85cc or 125cc class. Both my bikes are fine and I’m raring to go,” said Bako. He was recently nominated among the three nominees for the 2019 ANSA Junior Sportsman of the Year award. He will also use today’s race meeting at ERORA as part of his preparations for the opening round of the 2020 South African National Championship series which gets underway on February 15 at Rover in Port Elizabeth. Bako has a busy schedule ahead of him this year. Apart from competing in the seven-round South African Nationals and a number of regional competitions in that country, the young Zimbabwean rider is set to compete in the European Junior Championship between July and August. Bako is now a member of France-based EHR Racing Team which is headed by ex-South African rider Joe Tavares. Meanwhile, the Bogwheelers Club, who run motocross in this country, will hold their 2019 prize-giving function tomorrow afternoon at Donnybrook. The winners of several classes during the 2019 season will be rewarded for their efforts and they include five-year-old Victor Nyamupfukudza who dominated the PeeWee Class, which is designed for riders under the age of seven. Nyamupfukudza will this year be competing in the 50cc Class.  