The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS gaffer, Tonderai Ndiraya, says the Glamour Boys are the most difficult club to coach, and play for, in domestic football. The country’s biggest football club finished a disappointing ninth in the league race last season. “This is Dynamos, like I have said, it is the most difficult club to play for as a player and the most difficult to coach,’’ said Ndiraya. “Just acquiring players is not good enough. “You need to prepare them, to get into the right fitness levels and make sure that they are able to handle the pressure which comes with playing for such a big brand. DeMbare will embark on periodic camps this off-season aimed at conditioning the large pool of their new recruits to the demands that come with playing for the Glamour Boys. They have virtually overhauled their squad and brought in 11 new players with the recruitment exercise still going on. Ndiraya recommended the release of a handful of players, including Godfrey Mukambi, to freshen up his squad. The Glamour Boys have brought in a number of new faces, including Juan Mutudza from Herentals, goalkeeper Taimon Mvula, Partson Jaure, Nkosi Mhlanga and Lennox Mutsetse. “These boys have come to a big and difficult institution where there is immense pressure,’’ said Ndiraya. “We are already working on that. The boys have to put on big performances. Dynamos is about having a big heart. “I am satisfied, so far, with the process. We need to prepare the boys’ mentality,” said Ndiraya. “We are going to face a difficult, yet exciting season, so we are busy preparing the boys in terms of mental strength.” Dynamos failed to come to the party last season, finishing a disappointing ninth in the league. “I am quite hopeful that they will be able to step up,’’ said Ndiraya. “Last year was a very difficult season for us. Very disappointing in terms of results but, of course, I would like to also give credit to the boys who were there, those we have released and are on their way to join other clubs. “They did well to protect our brand. “Without their hard work and effort we could have been talking of something else. “I think this year it is about taking the brand to another level. Naturally, a team is not built over one season, you need a minimum of about three seasons to come up with a strong team.’’ Ndiraya’s charges spent the weekend at Lake Chivero in a team-building exercise. Another conditioning camp is slated for next week at a venue yet to be known.