The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo,Senior Arts Reporter Former model-cum actress, Runako Makamure, says television and social media have replaced the aunts and uncles in identifying and solving societal problems. She was speaking at the launch of her new online television show dubbed “Runako Tales” yesterday, which tackles societal issues. The show, which has already attracted a huge audience on social media, features Patrice Muzvondiwa and Makamure. It was written by Kuda Chiwamira and produced by Rodwell Gobvu. Said Makamure: “We came together with Patrice (Muzvondiwa) and decided to do a show which focuses on the day-to-day experiences of ordinary people in a local set-up. The show is not more than five minutes long because it is on social media, hence social ills are dealt with there and there, with some solutions too. The main goal is to bring light to the problems faced by people.” Makamure said the idea came after the realisation that some issues affecting the society were no longer being spoken about for various reasons, including lack of time among families. “Gone are the days when we used to shy away from societal issues like abuse, sexual and monetary problems which are more dominant in the society. “Somehow, we no longer have the aunts and uncles to help and assist us, so we use the medium available to communicate our ills,” she said. Makamure encouraged churches and traditional systems to continue playing their roles in dealing with societal issues. “Though we may have other avenues to discuss issues, the traditional systems should continue to exist and should be revived so that no stone is left unturned in helping our communities,” she said. Asked who her role model was, Makamure said was inspired by comedian Madam Boss who is more natural in her skits and is one of the celebrated women in the local industry. “She is natural and I have seen her grow in this industry. She is not deterred by negative publicity that often comes with the acting industry. “Challenges we are facing are financial constraints and location for our shoot,” she said. Makamure said she was not competing with anyone as suggested by some social media users who think she was competing with popular and controversial talented skit producers, Thomas Chizhanje of Thomas Chizhanje Diaries, Lucky Aaron (Bus Stop TV) and Lorraine Guyo.