The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter WITH their 2020/2021 season half-way, Triathlon Zimbabwe national coach Pamela Fulton believes they are making some positive strides in their efforts to grow the sport as the numbers in most age-groups have been on the rise. They had one of their major events recently in Penhalonga featuring a number of races for different age-groups, including the selection age-groups — Under-15, Under-17 and Under-19. The event is part of the build-up to the National Championships at Troutbeck and South Africa Championships next year. Josh Jacobs was the first to cross the finish line in the Under-15 boys category while George Ascott took the honours in the Under-17 boys and the Under-19 category was won by Luke Steffens. For the girls Under-15, Anje Van As came out tops and Makanaka Mawere claimed the Under-17 category. Erin Elliott won the Under-19 category. “Being half-way through our 2020/21 season, I feel we have been well supported and have grown the numbers in the selection categories as well as in our Tri-Fun and Tri-Fit categories. “Unfortunately, the numbers for our little ones, Under-10s, have remained low all season. But hopefully we will see a change here from January onwards,” said Fulton. For the likes of Van As, who missed what was supposed to be her debut appearance at the South Africa Championships this year after they were cancelled, Saturday’s victory was a boost for her as she seeks to make the points for next year. Fulton is happy with how the athletes have risen the challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic. “With the disappointment of our triathletes not being able to compete at the South Africa Championships due to Covid-19, I have been exceptionally impressed with how they have all picked themselves up, continued to train hard, determined to be their best and qualify once again for this season’s South Africa Championships. “We continue with high hopes of being able to compete there this time. “We do encourage as many of our athletes to travel to this event as it provides them with the opportunity to practice open water swimming as it is always an element of the South Africa Championships race and other international events.