The Herald LONDON. — West Bromwich Albion boss Sam Allardyce says he considers Arsenal a relegation rival in the English Premiership football. The Gunners’ poor start to the season sees them in 15th place and just four points above the bottom three. West Brom are 19th, seven points behind Mikel Arteta’s side. Asked if he saw Arsenal as a rival in the battle for English Premier League survival, Allardyce said: “If they are in the bottom eight at the moment, yes. Absolutely.” Arsenal suffered their third defeat in four games on Tuesday night as they were beaten 4-1 by Manchester City in the quarter-finals of the Carabao Cup. Allardyce added: “Getting beaten (by Manchester City), even though it is not in the Premier League, as it would do with ours, drains the confidence of Arsenal’s players. “They will be wondering what has hit them. They will be wondering why they are down there. They will be wondering what it takes to get out of that position. I know what it takes. I hope to convince my players to respond to that.” West Brom host Arsenal in the Premier League on January 2 and Allardyce is confident his side can take advantage of their opponent’s poor form and get a much-needed win in their battle for survival. “I hope we can push at Arsenal, when we play them, because they have a lack of confidence,” he said. “We will try to beat them, or anybody in the bottom eight.” Meanwhile, Manchester United may have taken their time to hit top gear in the Premier League this season but Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side could find themselves in second place and within two points of leaders Liverpool with a win at Leicester City tomorrow. Solskjaer faced questions over his future after United’s Champions League exit in the group stage and their struggles at home but the Norwegian has overseen six wins and a draw in seven league games to take his side up to third place with 26 points. Having shaken off the cobwebs with a 6-2 home win against bitter rivals Leeds United last weekend, United will bank on their 100% away record when they travel to Leicester, who are a point above Solskjaer’s team but have played a game more. Only Liverpool can match Leicester’s tally of nine wins this season but Brendan Rodgers’ Foxes have also lost five of their 14 games so far — more than any of the top six teams — and were beaten 2-0 by Everton in their last home game. Fellow top-four hopefuls Chelsea visit struggling Arsenal side languishing in 15th after their worst start to a campaign since the 1974-75 season and the pressure is mounting on manager Mikel Arteta to turn the north London club’s fortunes around. The Gunners have lost five of their last seven league games with new West Bromwich Albion manager  Allardyce saying they now face a similar relegation battle as his side. West Brom face a daunting test themselves when they visit Anfield to play champions Liverpool, who returned to their devastating best in a 7-0 win at Crystal Palace last weekend, a result that followed their 2-1 home win over Tottenham Hotspur. Liverpool have received a boost with the return to full first-team training of midfielder Thiago Alcantara following a knee injury sustained against Everton in October. Jose Mourinho’s Spurs, who were top of the table earlier this month before dropping to sixth, travel to the West Midlands to face Wolverhampton Wanderers in another Sunday fixture. Mid-table Wolves have lost three of their last four games in the absence of injured striker Raul Jimenez. Goal-shy Manchester City are in unfamiliar territory under Pep Guardiola in eighth spot after 13 games but will aim to go six matches unbeaten when Newcastle United visit tomorrow. Steve Bruce’s 12th-placed side are hoping to put a Covid-19 outbreak at the club behind them and claim a sixth win of the campaign to potentially break into the top half of the table. Elsewhere, Aston Villa host Palace, Southampton visit Fulham tomorrow, while winless Sheffield United host an Everton team who have won three games on the trot to jump into fourth place. Leeds United take on Burnley at Elland Road and West Ham United welcome Brighton & Hove Albion on Sunday. And Chelsea winger Hakim Ziyech will miss tomorrow’s English Premier League encounter at Arsenal due to a muscle problem while defenders Ben Chilwell and Reece James are doubtful after picking up knocks, manager Frank Lampard said. Ziyech joined Chelsea from Ajax Amsterdam during the close-season for a reported 40 million euros (US$48.81 million) but the 27-year-old missed the start of the campaign through injury. The Morocco international has not played since Chelsea’s 3-1 win over promoted Leeds United on December 5. “Ziyech won’t be fit for Arsenal… he’s got another muscle injury. You have to wait for it to recover,” Lampard told a news conference yesterday. “It’s not a long-term concern, we hope to have him back within the next week or so, and hopefully offering what he was before.” Chilwell and James both suffered knocks in the past week and are doubtful for the clash at the Emirates Stadium as well as the visit of Aston Villa two days later. “I can’t give you an answer at the moment. I’m not sure if they’ll be fit for either game,” Lampard added. Lampard’s side are fifth in the league with 25 points from 14 games. English Premiership Fixtures Tomorrow (Boxing Day): Leicester City v Manchester United (2:30pm); Fulham v Southampton (5pm); Aston Villa v Crystal Palace (5pm); Arsenal v Chelsea (7:30pm); Manchester City v Newcastle United (10pm); Sheffield United v Everton (10pm). Sunday, December 27: Leeds United v Burnley (2pm); West Ham United v Brighton & Hove Albion (4:15pm); Liverpool v West Bromwich Albion (6:30pm); Wolverhampton Wanderers v Tottenham Hotspur (9:15pm). Monday, December 28: Crystal Palace v Leicester City (5pm); Chelsea v Aston Villa (7:30pm); Everton v Manchester City (10pm). Tuesday, December 29: Southampton v West Ham United (8pm); Burnley v Sheffield United (8pm); West Bromwich Albion v Leeds United (8pm); Brighton & Hove Albion v Arsenal (8pm); Manchester United v Wolverhampton Wanderers (10pm). — AFP.