The Herald CAIRO. — The Confederation of African Football (CAF) has given the green light for the African Nations Football Championship (CHAN) in Cameroon to take place with spectators with Covid-19 measures implemented. Initially scheduled to have taken place in April 2020, the tournament was postponed to early 2021 due to the ongoing pandemic. It is now set to run from January 16 to February 7, 2021, with Zimbabwe among the finalists. According to the Journal du Cameroon, the Sports and Physical Education Minister Narcisse Mouelle Kombi was informed of this decision during a working visit to the Amadou Ahidjo Stadium in Yaoundé. Mouelle Kombi stated that during group matches, the stadiums will be filled at 25 percent capacity. “CAF has delivered a satisfactory certificate to Cameroon in which she indicates the percentage of stadia occupation in line with health exigencies outlines by FIFA,” said Mouelle Kombi. “Twenty five percent of spectators will be admitted in the different stadia during the first phase of the competition, that is group matches.” He suggested that this could rise to 50 per cent in the knock-out phases of the competition. In a previous stadium visit in Douala, Cameroon Prime Minister Joseph Dion Ngute added that he was “sure” that by the time the competition starts, the Covid-19 situation in Africa will have improved. To date, there have been more than 26 000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Cameroon, resulting in the deaths of 448 people. The cities of Yaounde, Douala and Limbe are set to host matches at the Championship. CHAN is one of two international continental men’s football competitions sanctioned by CAF along with the Africa Cup of Nations. The Africa Cup of Nations allows all players who play internationally for African teams to compete, while the CHAN only permits players involved in domestic leagues to compete. Cameroon’s side will be solely made up of Cameroonian players playing football in their home league. Meanwhile, preparations for the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations in Ivory Coast remain on track despite the Covid-19 pandemic. A Confederation of African Football inspection team visited Ivory Coast this month to check on progress for the 2023 tournament. This included CAF deputy general secretary Anthony Baffoe, director of competitions Samson Adamu, manager of national teams competition Ismail Wally, and head of services and travel Randa Metwally. Despite the potential negative impact of the global health crisis, Baffoe claimed preparations were on track. “The visit was well orchestrated,” he said. “We are very satisfied with the way the inspection visit went, and with the work done by the Local Organising Committee.” Baffoe also revealed  the majority of stadium construction is set to be completed by mid-2021. “Most stadium deliveries are scheduled for mid-2021,” he said. “This means they still have time, but it will allow them to organise test matches. “I recommended that they set up an organisational chart and appoint a tournament director, a security chief and all the important operational people. “My sentence will always remain the same; put the right people in the right place.” Cote d’lvoire was originally awarded the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in 2014. In 2018 CAF stripped Cameroon of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations because of concerns over delays in infrastructure, development and security but agreed the country could host the 2021 edition. In turn, Cote d’lvoire agreed to organise the competition in 2023. Competition is expected to be held in June and July with matches in Abidjan, Bouaké, Korhogo, San Pédro and Yamoussoukro. — Insidethegames.com