The Herald Ivan Zhakata Arts Correspondent MUSICIAN and theatre practitioner Whitney Matiyanga, affectionately known as Brity Yonly, donated goods worth US$1 000 to 17 children from Shepherd Trust in Epworth who put up a scintillating performance during the “Vachabaiwa” challenge. The “Vachabaiwa” challenge which was to market the new video and was held online. The donation which was handed over on Unity Day to the children from Lamb Arts which is part of the Shepherds Trust as an appreciation after the children put up a polished and well-rehearsed challenge to the “Vachabaiwa” video that was released in August 2020. Speaking at the event Brity Yonly Music’s manager Tonderai Machadu said it was part of their social responsibility to assist the less privileged. “Whitney was impressed with how the children put up the show. This was a Christmas present we are giving them. We hope it will go a long way as we managed to do what they desired,” he said. He said in the arts industry, 2020 was not a year to which they looked back with happiness owing to the Covid-19 pandemic that claimed more than a million lives across the globe. Machadu said it gave birth to lockdowns and suspension of social gatherings which has negatively affected the arts sector. “These inevitable and useful restrictions have dealt the arts industry a heavy blow since the life of an artiste thrives mainly on the gathering of people,” he said. “As Brity Yonly Music, we were not spared from the ripple effects of this global turmoil. Our artiste who was scheduled to come from her base in China to launch the Music for Girls and Women Festival (MuFoGwo) in Harare this December could not make it because of these measures that were put in place to contain this disease “I am glad to announce that the aforementioned festival shall be launched first here in Epworth before it spreads to other areas as soon as the situation normalises.” In a related development, a state of the art recording studio shall be simultaneously launched together with a Brity Yonly clothing label in Harare. The first beneficiaries to record in that studio shall be from Epworth”