The Herald NEW YORK. — Rihanna has found herself facing a new lawsuit after a pair of German artistes claimed one of their tracks was used in a Fenty ad without their permission. The 32-year-old Barbados native is being sued by a German father-daughter musical  duo dubbed King Khan and Saba Lou, according to TMZ. They allege that RiRi used a track of theirs entitled Good Habits (and Bad) in an Instagram post promoting her Fenty fashion line. The lawsuit alleges that King Khan and Saba Lou created the music and lyrics for Good Habits (and Bad), which was featured on the Instagram post. The duo also claim that Rihanna did not have their permission to use the track on the ad, theorizing that she just lifted the song from a music streaming platform. King Khan and Saba Lou are seeking unspecified damages, along with demanding that she stop using their song. The Instagram ad racked up more than 3.4 million views, according to the lawsuit, though it’s not clear when the ad debuted. Neither Rihanna, nor reps from her Fenty brand have responded to the lawsuit, or requests for comment at this time. The news comes just months after the singer and fashion mogul was named to Forbes’ list of wealthiest self-made women.Rihanna took 33rd place on the list, with an estimated net worth of US$600 million from record sales and her Fenty line. She also placed 60th on the Forbes annual Celebrity 100 list, with earnings of US$46 million this past year. The Umbrella singer was also one of the most charitable celebs in quite the trying year, donating upwards of US$8 million for coronavirus relief. She donated US$1 million to individuals in need in New York City, along with US$2.1 million to Los Angeles abuse victims and US$5 million to other charities through her Clara Lionel Foundation. Rihanna has sold more than 250 million albums worldwide, making her one of the best-selling female artists of all time. Aside from her music and fashion lines, she has also carved out an acting career as well, most recently appearing in Amazon Studios’ Guava Island. — dailymail.com.