The Herald Bulawayo Bureau FOUR women have been arrested, among them a 76-year-old granny, after they allegedly stripped their neighbour naked and severely assaulted her for allegedly stealing donkeys from the community. Dudu Mpofu (76), Siphathisiwe Nkala (44), Nomathemba Siziba (25) and Sikhanyisiwe Nkala (48) were convicted on their own plea of guilty to assault by Gwanda magistrate, Miss Lerato Nyathi. Mpofu was sentenced to six months in jail which was wholly suspended. Siphathisiwe and Siziba were sentenced to six months’ imprisonment of which three months were suspended on condition that they do not commit a similar offence within the next three years. The remaining three months were further suspended on condition that they pay a $2 000 fine each. Sikhanyisiwe was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment of which three months were suspended on condition that she does not commit a similar offence within the next three years. The remaining three months were further suspended on condition that she performs 105 hours of community service at Wilisa Primary School. Prosecuting, Miss Faith Mutukwa said the women assaulted Ms Mthokozisi Nyathi (39) of Insindi Resettlement in Gwanda on August 29. “On 19 August at around 12pm the complainant was at Silikwe Business Centre when she was ordered by some community members to surrender seven donkeys which she was suspected to have stolen. “They then dragged the complainant into a community court which was being held by a senior village head. “The court questioned Ms Nyathi on stealing donkeys and then selling them to people from other villagers but she denied the allegations. “This didn’t go down well with the villagers and the accused persons took her away in order to discipline her in a bid to force her to admit to the allegations,” she said. Miss Mutukwa said the accused persons then took Ms Nyathi to a classroom at Silikwe Primary School and ordered her to undress and went on to assault her with wooden sticks all over the body. She said the accused persons then took the complainant back to the community court where they forced her to admit to the allegations. Miss Mutukwa said Ms Nyathi then collapsed and all the community members fled leaving her lying unconscious. She was assisted by her daughter who took her to a relative’s place where they administered first aid until she regained consciousness. She said the complainant was ferried to Gwanda Provincial Hospital for treatment and the matter was reported to the police.