The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter DESPITE missing most of the foreign motocross riders, the organisers of the Zimbabwe Summer Series have expressed satisfaction with the quality of the competition, having gone an extra mile to ensure the event was staged this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In a year most events and competitions have been cancelled, the Bogwheelers Club, who run the motorcycling sport of motocross in this country, worked tirelessly for the event to go ahead last weekend at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare and their efforts brought some joy for the participants considering there were not many races this season. There was stiff competition in the different Classes with the irresistible Emmanuel Bako (14) claiming honours in the 85cc Class ahead of Zambia’s Shane Parkes, who came second. Daniel Collett settled for third place. Eleven-year-old Emile Croisette also took part in the 85cc Class but he failed to get a place on the podium as he did not compete in the flat track event on Saturday and failed to score more points. Croisette “had a fantastic start in the 85cc Class” during Friday’s Supercross where he had 4-2-2 and came second overall behind his best friend Bako. And on Sunday in motocross he had a 2-2-2  with two nice holeshots as he once again settled for second place behind the superstar Bako. In fact, Croisette went smooth and solid during Friday’s Supercross and Sunday’s motocross; and he declared afterwards that Bako is clearly his target for 2021. Bako, meanwhile, came third in the 125cc Class, coming behind winner Daiyaan “D” Manuel (14) and Jamie Doran. In the PeeWees 50, Michael Krause was first ahead of Jayden Kerwin. Victor Nyamupfukudza (5) was third. Kudzwai Chitsurura took honours in the 50cc Class ahead of Benjamin Doran and Seb Wright. There was also joy for Karl Van As, who came first in the 65cc Class, relegating Declan Barrett and Tariq Shelton to second and third position. Regan Wasmuth took honours in the MX1 Class ahead of Zambian Scott Haygate and fellow countryman Dyllan Ashwell. In the MX2 Class, Daiyaan Manuel was on top of his game, settling for the top spot. Reagan Bond and Mudiwa Chigumba were second and third respectively. First position in the MX3 Class went to Douglas Mellor. He was followed by Adriaan Olivier on second position and on third place was Mark Ziemann In the Masters, Quinten Le Roux was first ahead of Shane Thomas and Trevor Thixton. Except for the Zambians, who happened to be in the country, most of the foreign riders that usually grace the Zimbabwe Summer Series could not attend because of travel restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Bogwheelers Club secretary, Jamie Kerwin, expressed gratitude to the 10 riders from Zambia that attended the event. “The Zambian competitors were a welcome addition to our Zimbabwe Summer Series event. We are so grateful they were able to attend. “The level of competition was still stiff . . . the Zambians were very fit and brought their A game. The turnout was fantastic even though we are in the pandemic. “We hope that the next step for motorsport is that we will be opened up fully and allowed to practice and compete on a regular basis,” said Kerwin. Enduro class also did a demonstration during the event.