The Herald Collin Matiza
Sports Editor
AFTER spending two months training under former three-time world motocross champion, Yves Demaria, in France, Emile Croisette can’t wait for the Zimbabwe Summer Series. The showcase is expected to rev off at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare next weekend. This year’s Summer Series, which is the country’s premier competition in the motorcycling sport of motocross, will be held over three days on December 11, 12 and 13. This three-day series has, over the years, traditionally consisted of two Supercross (night racing) events and one full day of motocross action on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. But, due to the coronavirus restrictions and guidelines, this year’s Summer Series has had its format changed. It will now be held over three consecutive days on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. It will also see the introduction of flat track racing, which will be held on Saturday, December 12, a day after the opening Supercross event. The series will then close with a full day of some high-octane motocross action on Sunday, December 13. Flat track racing, also known as dirt track racing, looks similar to Speedway racing but is quite different. Flat track bikes have front and rear suspension and rear brakes. The brakes are what make it completely distinct from speedway, as they allow for a different cornering technique. Croisette (11), is now back in Zimbabwe after spending two months — July and August — in France training under Demaria at his private facility in Uzes. Demaria is a French former professional motocross racer. He is a three-time FIM Motocross World Champion in the MX3-GP Class for motorcycles displacing 650cc. “Yes, I’m now back in Zimbabwe, after spending two months in France training with Yves Demaria, the former three-time world champion, who is the coach of Julien Lieber and Stephen Rubini, who came 10th overall in the MX2 Class during the 2020 World Championships in Italy in September. “And, after getting some precious tricks on how to improve my starts from Demaria, I feel lucky and can’t wait to race again. “I’m really looking forward to competing at this year’s Zimbabwe Summer Series. “Probably, my dream is to challenge one of my best friends Emmanuel Bako in the 85cc Class,” Croisette said. Croisette is a rookie in the 85cc Class as he has all along been competing in the 65cc Class. But, it will be interesting to see how he will fare against Bako (14) who spent the last two months training, and racing, in South Africa. Bako’s father and manager, Brighton, confirmed his son will compete at this year’s Summer Series. “He is more than ready to take part in this event next weekend and is looking for a clean sweep in the 85cc Class,” Brighton said. The Summer Series will be the last motocross event of the year before a new season opens at the beginning of 2021. This three-day series has, over the past years, attracted top junior and senior riders from overseas, mainly from the United Kingdom and the United States. Some top junior and senior riders from South Africa, Botswana and Zambia have also featured regularly. It could not be established yesterday whether these foreign bikers will be available for this year’s event due to the travel restrictions after the outbreak of coronavirus.