The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter
THE Harare Amateur Swimming Senior Championships resume today at Les Brown with high expectations for both clubs and swimmers. The competition, held over two weekends, got underway last week with some exciting performances from some of the upcoming swimmers. Several records were broken and when the swimmers return to the pool this morning, they will be out for more records and improved times. Those still seeking qualifying for the South African Championships will also take the opportunity to push for the times. Some of the swimmers that are expected to be at Les Brown include Josh Covill of Spartans, who had a positive start last weekend, and is looking forward for more positive results. “I think it’s been very good and definitely with the way the swimming committee has done the regulations for Covid-19 it’s been on point. “The swimmers have been enjoying themselves I think it’s a very good gala, everyone is doing quite well. “I think I am looking forward to that (the competition) and I am sure we will get a lot of good results. “Personally, I have found that I got a few personal best times, so I have done better than I have done before. “But, there is always stuff you can improve and do better for next time,” said Covill. Covill has already made times for the South Africa Junior Nationals and is looking at competing in other competitions outside the country for more competition. Another Spartans swimmer, Ryan Franceys, is also excited about this weekend and is hoping to beat some of his times from previous competitions. “I am looking forward to the 1500m freestyle. I know it’s a long way but I haven’t beaten my personal best in a while so I am hoping to do that. “It’s been amazing, there is so many good swimmers here, so I am just glad I get to feature in the top rankings of any race,” Franceys said. HAS public relations, Shingirai Mtetwa, said they are expecting some good results in the final two days. “We are hoping for more records to be broken and more personal best times to be achieved by our swimmers,” said Mtetwa. Last weekend ended with Highlands leading with a combined team score of 3 286,5 points, followed by Sharks, who accumulated 1 336 points. In third spot was Spartans, with 1 037.5, and Pirates Zimbabwe had 752 in fourth place. Dorado Swim Club and Harare Otters Swim Club were fifth and sixth with 582 and 285 points respectively. Crocs had 12 points.