The Herald Talent Chimutambgi Arts Reporter Government is targeting to set up new youths centres and refurbish the old ones to promote arts and sport in the country. Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Kirsty Coventry revealed this while officially launching the Frankton Light School of Arts (FILISA) Festival in Chitungwiza yesterday. She said the youth centres were expected to build self confidence among the youths and enable them to be proud of their culture. The FULISA festival, which kicked off yesterday, targeted 1 000 participants performing in different venues in Chitungwiza. FILISA was established in 2008 in South Africa through the initiative of Mr Frankton Murinyu, who is the founder. The school later opened another centre in Chitungwiza, where more than 100 students are trained in various arts activities. “We want to refurbish and build new buildings in some areas. We will have youth centres across the country that have declined over the years. “We engaged with different stakeholders including the Government and as well as the city council. We will have dedicated space for youth in terms of ICT infrastructure and internet, and another space for sporting activities and another for arts,” said Minister Coventry. “We want to have 44 per province, but unfortunately due to Covid-19 some resources were sent back to cover this Covid-19 problem,” she said. “Hopefully next year looking at the budget we expect this project to be a success. We want these centres to the epicentre of identifying talents among the youths on arts and sports to take that talent to next level as well as giving them scholarships to enhance their talents. It will be also an opportunity to link with other artists top nurture their talents as far as the sports and arts are concerned,” said Minister Coventry. She bemoaned the effects of Covid-19 as a major blow to the arts industry. “The effects of Covid-19 have impacted very hard on the arts industry as it denied them opportunity to interact with other artists and to attend other festivals. This will give them confidence and enable them to be proud of who they are and become accomplished,” she said. Speaking at the same occasion FILISA director Mr Murinyu said he was preparing the youths to dominate in various facets of arts and entertainment so that they become masters of their own destiny. “We prepare youths to thrive in a fast-paced field of arts, entertainment, and media. We are a center of creative arts and we prepare youths to dominate in the arts industry with confidence,” said Mr Murinyu. The school is training students from the age of 8 years up to 21 years. When the Herald arrived, youths were showcasing their talent in different facets including dances, music and dramas. Mr Murinyu said they have two movies posted on Youtube which are “Chura comes to town” and “Ma1” and other two productions which ran on Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation television (ZBC TV) since April this year.