The Herald Veronica Gwaze
ZIMBABWE Cricket and Rugby national teams’ star Precious Marange is on the way to living her dream. The star who rose from a house maid to making it into two national teams simultaneously, has captured international attention. Marange will be filming her debut documentary, which is yet to be titled, this week. It is part of a project which will be featured on an international programme “My Zimbabwe” on Aljazeera. And the left-handed batter and right-arm fast-medium bowler feels it is actually the beginning of her journey to greater heights. “When Tomas Brickhill contacted me with the offer, I went blank for some minutes because I could not believe it,” explains Marange. “Looking back where I came from and how I found myself on the pitch, I never dreamt of people sitting down one day to watch my story on television.” The programme which aims to tell the story of different athletes from across the globe will be featuring the cricketer in different sets. Marange will be filmed in Mutare, where her roots and early life will be captured in visuals. The documentary, which comes as her first project, will also capture her during training sessions, competitive games, at home, work and at school. “This documentary will also include the provincial finals but not confined to cricket and rugby life. “I was surprised when Brickhill called to say he had read about how I play cricket and rugby for Zimbabwe, have another job and also am studying. “He was eager to know how I balance everything, hence he needed all that captured in the documentary.” Marange traces her life back to the days when she was still employed as a maid in Harare at age 22. She remembers watching cricket on the television and failing in love with sport but never thought that one day she would be the one appearing on television. In fact, at first she thought she would never play beyond social and club levels. “Remember, we used to play just for the love of the game. There was no remuneration for female cricket back then, so it was difficult to think of it as anything really serious. “During my first cricket days, there was a bit of tension at home. Sport was not taken as something serious so every parent would advise their child to either further their education or find a job,” she explains. “This meant I had to briefly lie low. They tried to talk me out of it so I decided not to consult on some of the decisions I faced, but it’s all behind now. They are now my number one fans.” Following the Covid-19 induced lockdown earlier this year, Marange said the break was a blessing in disguise for her as she got time to reflect on her career and ponder on life after sport. The vocal player plans to establish an academy with its major focus being to identify, create and groom talent with her target group being those who, like her, abandoned the backyard for the pitch. 