The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal’s miserable season continued as they slumped to a 4-1 home defeat by holders Manchester City in the League Cup quarter-finals on Tuesday night. And Mikel Arteta has conceded Arsenal will be “in big trouble” if they fail to transform their fortunes through a season-defining festive schedule. The Gunners crashed out of the Carabao Cup 4-1 to Manchester City on Tuesday as Arteta’s side slipped to a sixth defeat in 11 matches all competitions. London rivals Chelsea are the visitors to the Emirates Stadium on Boxing Day before the Gunners see in the New Year with trips to Brighton and West Brom, and Arteta admits it is a make-or-break run of games. “We have to turn it around, there is no question,” he told Sky Sports. “If we don’t, we are in big trouble, so this is the moment that is going to decide our season. “We do (have the tools to turn things around) because I see how much the players try and what they are trying to do, but at the moment a lot of strange things are happening in every game and that makes things really difficult.” “It’s a disappointing night,” Arteta also said. “We started the game and conceded after two minutes, a really soft goal. After that, in the moment we are in, and against this opponent, it is difficult. “We got back in the game, started to grow and scored a really good goal and we had a spell of 25 minutes where we were the better team. “After that, we conceded the second goal the way we did and against this level of opponent, they punish you and make life really difficult. “This is a really hard one to take when you consider how the game went. The reaction the team had against this level of opponent was good, but when you give the goals we gave away, it makes the game impossible.” Asked for his thoughts on Runarsson’s error, the Gunners boss added: “He hasn’t played a lot of games for us, he’s adapting to the league and this is it. We all make mistakes; we have to support him. “I thought about starting Bernd Leno, but he has played a lot of minutes and needed some rest. We want to give opportunities to other players; Alex has done well in the other games and these things happen in football.” It’s been just over a year since Arteta left the Manchester City coaching set-up to take the reins at the Emirates but defeat to his former employers has only heightened the mounting pressure on his position. Speaking after the game, however, City boss Pep Guardiola issued a public backing of Arteta, insisting Arsenal would be making a “big mistake” if they decide to sack his former assistant. “They will do a huge, big mistake,” Guardiola told BBC. “I’m pretty sure they are going to trust him. I understand for the analysts, analyse the results. “But I was with him many years and I know his incredible quality as a human being and especially as a manager, how he is involved in everything. It’s just a question of time and he will do well. “I’m not on the board. For me they will do a big mistake if they are thinking. They give him the confidence, they won two titles when for a long time ago it didn’t happen at this club. “In this pandemic situation, with injury problems they have and the games they played always they played good. But unfortunately these games is our job and it depends on the results. But football changes in one week so quick. “I can speak about my experience alongside him, one of the most incredible successful teams in English history we had and he was part of this success and it would not be possible without him, and to create something like this you need time like I had in my first season.” City, who have won the trophy for the last three seasons, went in front after three minutes through Brazilian striker Gabriel Jesus, who nodded home a fine Oleksandr Zinchenko cross. Arteta’s struggling Arsenal side drew level in the 31st minute with a fine diving header from Alexandre Lacazette after an excellent cross from Brazilian Gabriel Martinelli but City took charge after the break. — AFP.