The Herald Political Editor
RESULTS of last weekend Zanu PF District Coordinating Committee (DCC) elections are trickling-in with the party National Chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri, who chairs the national command centre, saying teams have been dispatched to engage party officials who may have concerns. In a status update of the DCC polls, Cde Muchinguri, who was flanked by the party National Commissar Cde Victor Matemadanda and Secretary for Security Cde Lovemore Matuke said the party is committed to ensuring that the aspirations of its members are fulfilled hence the delay in announcing results in some areas as teams have been send to investigate areas where some people may feel aggrieved with the process. “Zanu PF is a very democratic party, where people feel they have not been treated fairly, there are different levels of interventions- at district level, provincial level (and) we also dispatched national teams from headquarters. “Over and above that, we are the final level which is the command centre but of course we consult with our principals, His Excellency and his two deputies. “We have received a number of complaints which have been presented. One of the reasons why we have withheld results from some of the districts is the contestations which surround certain results because we require to investigate some of those complaints. “We still have at least two days to send out teams to thoroughly investigate where we feel that they have been some unfairness and also we need to verify some figures which did not tally,” she said. She added that results from across the nation will be verified by various teams send by the command centre and that in the next two days an announcement would be made of the remaining provinces. “The elections were affected by a few administrative and logistical challenges and the party has taken note of those challenges and we are putting in place corrective measures so that we do not experience this in the future. The situation was also compounded by incessant rains which damaged roads and made some polling stations inaccessible,” she said. As of yesterday, Manicaland Province had results for the DCC elections in Buhera, Chimanimani, Makoni, Mutasa, Nyanga and Zimunya-Marange ditricts, while in Mashonaland Central Province the districts of Bindura, Guruve, Mazowe, Mbire, Mt Darwin, Rushinga, Muzarabani and Shamva had been completed.  In Mashonaland East results for Marondera, Murewa, Chikomba, Seke, Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe and Hwedza had been confirmed while in Masvingo province results for the districts of Bikita, Chiredzi, Chivi, Mwenezi and Zaka had been also confirmed.  In Matabeleland North, the districts of Bubi, Binga, Lupane, Nkayi and Tsholotsho had confirmed the winning candidates, while in Matabeleland South the DCC structures were confirmed in Beitbridge, Gwanda, Insiza, Matobo and Mangwe districts.  In Midlands, the DCC structures were confirmed in Chirumhanzu, Gokwe North, Mberengwa, Shurugwi and Zvishavane with the Mashonaland West completing the process in the districts of Kariba, Makonde and Zvimba.  The governing party last weekend held DCC elections as part of its restructuring exercise that is among other things meant to enhance coordination of the party activities ahead of 2023 elections,  The party has already put DCC structures in Harare and Bulawayo, with the restructuring of the two metropolitan provinces already underway.