The Herald Ivan Zhakata
Herald Correspondent
Zimbabwe’s largest integrated media house, Zimbabwe Newspapers (1980) Limited (Zimpapers), yesterday donated sanitisers, face masks and a thermometer each to Chinhoyi High and Mukai High schools to help prevent the spread of Covid-19. Speaking at the handover, Zimpapers, public relations and corporate affairs manager ,Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi, said the donation was aimed at complementing Government efforts in combating Covid-19 in schools. “We have been observing, and with concern, what is happening in our schools where children are learning, especially right now when public exams have just begun,” she said. “We realised that Covid-19 has been spreading across the schools. “In the past weeks we have heard some of the schools which have been badly affected, so this is our small way as a responsible corporate citizen to support schools while complementing Government in making sure that learning continues and is not interrupted. “We would like our learners to continue writing their exams to finish off the term in a safe environment, so today we excited to have been able to support Government efforts by providing the schools with sanitisers, masks and a thermometer so that as people come into the school premises their temperature is checked and they are sanitised.” Chinhoyi High School treasurer, Mr Lameck Mahle welcomed the kind gesture. “Thank you very much for the donation,” he said. “Schools are sponsored by parents and when we opened our coffers were dry and that is how difficult it is. From the bottom of our hearts, we would want thank you for this humble donation.” Mr Mahle said his school had 600 borders in quarantine and 10 teachers were looking after them. He said even though the school recorded Covid-19 positive cases, the pupils were asymptomatic. Mr Mahle said Chinhoyi High School pupils, in partnership with Zimpapers radio station, Star FM, bought an ambulance for the school. Mukai High School headmaster, Mr West Musonza thanked Zimpapers for the donation, saying it will go a long way in reducing the spread of Covid 19.