The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter LONG-DISTANCE running coach Collen Makaza says most of the athletes seeking qualification for the Olympics and those that want to compete in other major races next year are showing some positive signs after spending two weeks camping in Vumba. Makaza together with Cephas Pasipamire took charge of the two-week camp that ended on Monday. It was an initiative by the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe. They had a team of 11 athletes, including Olympics hopefuls Ngonidzashe Ncube, Isaac Mpofu and Ethel Sibanda. Misheck Sithole, Faith Sanyika, Olivia Chitate, Elijah Mabhunu, Canicious Wenjere, Winfred Mutiro, Abel Chibanda and Tryphina Picardo were also part of the camp. “We had a very successful camp, no injuries were reported from our athletes which is something good. We managed to fulfil the whole programme we had put in place and did all the training sessions we had lined-up. “We were working on long runs, endurance and did some speed work. The main area of focus was endurance through those long runs,” said Makaza. All the athletes that were in Vumba are now in Harare for continuation of the training programme with the same coaches. “Now we are going for the second phase . . . So, we are continuing with training in Harare. What we are doing is, the whole team is training together and will take a one-week break just before Christmas and resume in January. “So in January we will have specific training for marathon, working on speed work on the track. So this training is continuation from the programme we had in Vumba. Our first race should be in February so that if they don’t make it they have another chance in May. “If they qualify early in February then they have more time to prepare for the Olympic Games, that’s the strategy by the national association,” said Makaza. NAAZ had earmarked six athletes for marathon — Mpofu, Ncube, Munyaradzi Jari, Rutendo Nyahora, Fortunate Chidzivo and Ethel Sibanda. The qualifying time for men is 2hours 11minutes 30seconds and for women its 2hours 29minutes 30seconds. However, some of the athletes that were part of the camp in Vumba have also expressed their interest to try and qualify and Chitate has declared her interest for the Olympics and the World Championships. “At the moment I am concentrating on the Olympics and if I fail to qualify, I am hoping I can make it for the World Championships. But looking at my previous time I ran in Botswana last year and the qualifying time, 2:29, I think it’s not that difficult. “It was a good thing done by the national association to organise this camp as we prepare for our races. I am hoping they can find races for us in Europe where we can run fast times,” said Chitate. Mpofu said getting to train as a group was helpful. “What I can say is usually when you train alone at home it’s different from when you train as a group. “So far we are in the right direction. It’s just that because of the coronavirus we have not been given the actual date for the race. When we start phase two we will step up too. So far we are not breaking camp until we go for the race,” said Mpofu.