The Herald PARI. — Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was facing more questions after poor decision-making left Manchester United in a tight sport in the UEFA Champions League. The United manager, somehow, chose to keep Fred on the pitch, rather than pull him out of the match, after he was lucky to escape a straight red, for a headbutt in the first half. The Brazilian was then sent off, for a second bookable offence, in the second half in the turning point of their match against Paris Saint-Germain. The French side took full advantage and, inspired by a brace from Neymar, won 3-1 win at Old Trafford. “We had some big chances, big moments and that’s the difference when you get to the big games,” said Solskjaer. There is a three-way tie on nine points, at the top of the group, with RB Leipzig right in contention after Norwegian striker, Alexander Sorloth, scored in injury time to give them a 4-3 victory at Istanbul Basaksehir. “We have almost qualified, which means we have not qualified yet. That is the reality. Being almost pregnant does not mean you are pregnant,” said PSG coach Thomas Tuchel. United also only require a point when they visit Leipzig, but will be out if they lose, while the Germans would in that case go through. Dortmund secured their progress after a 1-1 draw at home to Lazio in Group F, despite losing Erling Braut Haaland to a leg injury. Raphael Guerreiro put the Germans in front but Ciro Immobile’s penalty against his old side brought Lazio level. Lazio will join Dortmund in the next round if they avoid defeat against Club Brugge next week. The performance of the evening came from Olivier Giroud, as the France striker scored all four goals in Chelsea’s 4-0 win away to Sevilla. On just his second start this season, Giroud produced two lovely finishes before heading in to make it 3-0 and then winning and converting a late penalty. The 34-year-old is the oldest player to score a hat-trick in the competition since Hungarian great Ferenc Puskas in 1965 for Real Madrid against Feyenoord. — AFP.