The Herald Business Reporter
The Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Potraz)’s second hackathon saw a number of young innovators coming up with unique solutions to some fundamental socio-economic problems. Running under the theme  “Hacking for SDGs post Covid-19 and beyond”  the hackathon’s top prize of $5 million was scooped by LK-AFlighTech, who are developing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) technology, for use in effective delivery of medical essentials to remote areas. Farm Innovation Team took second place, with their automatic egg incubator, walking away with the prize money of $4,5 million. And the third place prize of $4 million went to Team SAS, with its smart agriculture solutions. According to Potraz the award monies will be disbursed to the winners in stages and on the basis of the progression of the projects. Officiating at the event in Bulawayo recently, ICT, Postal and Courier Services Minister Jenfan Muswere, said innovation is key to achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “It is important to note that innovation is not only an explicit focus of Goal 9, which focuses on building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and fostering innovation, but is also a key enabler of most, if not all, of the Goals. “For example, science, technology and innovation will play an essential role in achieving Goal 2, which focuses on ending hunger, achieving food security and improving nutrition and promoting sustainable agriculture,” said the Minister. “I cannot therefore, overemphasise the importance of developing an innovation culture in the country, as a prerequisite for the attainment of the SDGs.” Potraz adopted the Hackathon concept in line with the recommendations of the report prepared by the Zimbabwe delegation to the World Summit on the Information Society Forum 2019 (WSIS Forum 2019), and the success of the Zimbabwean team of students that participated in the Hackathon that was held during that event. Potraz director-general Dr Gift Machengete, reiterated the Minister’s remarks. “In view of the SDGs, we are proud to be rolling out this project because ICTs and Innovation are a major driver of development,” said Dr Machengete. “New ICTs overcome the barriers of distance and time, and significantly improve the accessibility of information and knowledge. ICTs are also a key element in mitigating the impact of unforeseen events such as natural disasters and pandemics such as Covid-19.