The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter Harare City Council finance director Tendai Kwenda yesterday appeared at the Harare Magistrates’ Court on allegations of transferring US$70 000 meant for the provision of water, sanitation, education and recreational services, into his personal bank account and later purchasing a top-of-the-range car. Kwenda appeared before regional magistrate Mr Trynos Utahwashe charged with criminal abuse of office with an alternative charge of theft of trust property. Mr Utahwashe did not ask Kwenda to plead to the charges, before remanding him in custody to December 24 for his routine remand. The State, led by Mr Panganayi Chiutsi alleged that on October 30, 2014, Kwenda allegedly connived with other city executives and transferred the money into his account from the council’s Traditional Beer Levy account. The money is not part of the general revenue of the local authority and must be only used for the community welfare as approved by the Minister of Local Government and Public Works, according to the State. Kwenda is alleged to have purchased a Jeep Cherokee without the minister’s approval or a council resolution. He allegedly violated the council’s procurement regulations, which, according to State, stipulates that any procurement above US$10 000 should go through tender. Kwenda is alleged to have purchased the Jeep Cherokee and registered it into his name. He was, according to the State, involved in an accident with the said car and failed to report to council before he went to claim insurance from Old Mutual. After receiving the insurance claim, Kwenda allegedly used the funds to purchase a Toyota Land Cruiser, which he also registered in his name. The alleged offence was unearthed by a compliance audit ordered by the Ministry of Local Government and Public Works. Another council executive Cainos Chingombe, the city’s human resources capital director, on Wednesday appeared in court facing similar allegations. Chingombe allegedly converted US$130 000 from the same council’s account and bought himself a Toyota Land Cruiser Prado. He was remanded to December 21 for his routine remand.