The Herald Prosper Ndlovu Bulawayo Bureau THE NetOne National Expansion Project Phase III is set to start early next year at a cost of US$71 million as the Government steps up efforts to deploy broadband infrastructure and investments to unlock more economic opportunities and facilitate improved access to digital technology services. The project is expected to upgrade operator’s national network coverage from about 75 to 85 percent, improve LTE (4G) coverage and introduce 5G technology to cater for increased data demand. Building a vibrant digital economy is a vital component towards realising an upper middle-income economy by 2030. As the Government moves to implement the National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1), ensuring increased connectivity by industry players is critical in ensuring affordable, accessible, ubiquitous and reliable Information Communication Technology (ICT) services that support an inclusive digital economy. Through NetOne, the Government is spearheading the Mobile Broad Band (MBB) project as a vehicle to improving network accessibility and connectivity across the country. The project is being rolled out in phases and already the initial stages have resulted in previously marginalised communities being connected to the “information super highway” — being able to communicate with family across the globe. Broadband infrastructure, user devices and the relevant support infrastructure are foundational building blocks for a sustainable broadband ecosystem and, in turn, digital economy, said ICT, Postal and Courier Services Minister, Dr Jenfan Muswere. “The MBB Phase III project is expected to commence early 2021. “The objectives of this phase of the project is to create high value sites to maximise on return on investment, network densification and consolidation in high value areas to increase data capacity, and de-congest densely populated areas,” said Dr Muswere in emailed responses. “These towers will be provisioned for infrastructure sharing to ensure greater efficiency and optimal utilisation of resources and critical national infrastructure. “The focus is to become data centric, to enable internet capacity and ensure preparedness to support the full implementation of the digital economy. “This will be a catalyst for the achievement of the 2030 upper middle-income economy vision, as well as enhance platforms to support programs such as education 5.0, smart health, smart agriculture, smart education, smart transport and develop connected communities that leverage on Smart cities, at a national, regional and global level. This Phase will be at a tune of US$71 million.” In its 2021 National Budget the Treasury also noted the importance of prioritising implementation of measures that create creating a conducive environment for private sector investment, full implementation of ICT infrastructure sharing, as well as full roll out of the e-Government programme.