The Herald Patson Chiumia
Midlands State University
Students Representative Councils (SRCs) at tertiary institutions in Zimbabwe in most cases seem to cease to represent students the moment they are elected into office. This results in the majority of students losing confidence in these student bodies. A Students Representative Council is a board of students elected by fellow students to be the voice of the students aimed at improving the welfare of students. The SRCs are expected to act as bridges between students and the universities/colleges by actively engaging students within class and on campus in order to improve all students’ learning experiences. The role of Students Representative Council is to safeguard academic and student rights as well as to affirm the student citizen’s dignity and value in the academic society. A Students’ Representative Council serves as a vital channel of communication, highlighting university/college and student matters, such as identifying any student needs not being addressed and communicating with the respective tertiary institutions. The SRC is supposed to stand as a campus-wide forum for the expression and exchange of new constructive ideas and opinions with administrations in the best interests of students. The SRCs are expected to advocate and promote maintenance of disciplinary, appeals and complaints procedures on campus in both academic and non-academic areas. It is the duty of the SRCs to raise awareness of all policies relating to academic and student support and direct students to respective departments for any support needs. The office bearers in the SRCs are expected to be servant leaders to the students and not act as tyrannical bosses who do whatever they deem necessary. However, on the ground as we speak right now, most Students Representative Councils at various tertiary institutions across Zimbabwe seem not to be aware of the issues concerning the students they represent and thus fail to communicate these issues appropriately. In fact, the offices of the Students Representative Council at most tertiary institutions have been reduced to sports betting shops where gamblers frequent in a bid to amass money in shortest possible time. Most office holders seem to be seeking office so that they can enjoy the privileges and benefits of the Students’ Representative Council, such as being exempted from paying fees and accommodation fees. The eloquence that office bearers display during election campaigning periods has bluntly been used as a tool of deception because promises that are being made are not being translated into tangible results. Another shocking reality is that most SRCs change the narrative the moment they are elected into office, in fact, they start to do the bidding of political parties outside the university setup. It does not take a rocket scientist to tell that the rhetoric some of these office bearers assert is not in the best interests of the students whom they should be representing. In the past some elected Student Representative Councils have done well in terms of improving student welfare for example the Zimbabwe Confederation of Students Union (ZICOSU)-led SRC at Midlands State University recently engaged the Zimbabwe United Passenger Company (ZUPCO), resulting in the hassle-free ferrying of MSU students from Harare to Gweru during the opening week of each new semester and from Gweru to Harare at the end of each semester. This has completely reduced the level of abuse and theft that students were being subjected to by touts and thieves respectively at Showground bus stop. My advice to serving executives of the various Students’ Representative Councils across universities and polytechnic colleges is that they become servant leaders to students they represent. Never think of changing the world before you change yourself. Do not expect to get a different result if you continue to repeat the same thing that has been done in the past. Let’s take a leaf from our young brothers and sisters in the Junior Parliament of Zimbabwe as they demonstrate the highest level of professionalism and serve in the best interests of the students and pupils they represent. Whelsy Handiseni & Tsitsi Gladys Tongwa Midlands State University TOGETHER we can make a change. Together we can make a difference, and together we can build a better nation. That is UNITY. Unity being a state of oneness, may be seen everywhere but in some areas its existence is not visible to the majority. If we take a closer look around us, we have unity in different areas like in schools, churches, workplaces and in our families. In schools, no matter which level it may be, unity is power. When students gather for discussions, presentation rehearsals or examination preparations, they will be guiding each other and sharing ideas in an endeavour to ensure everyone understands a concept discussed between fast learners and slow learners. So, the term unity is seen where everyone sees themselves as being in the same group, sharing all they know with everyone for the benefit of others regardless of their station in society. The state of oneness in education is power because everyone will achieve better results in their academic endeavours. Unity helps in nurturing. The family also represents unity through the relationship that is there between the parents and their children. Workplaces can also contribute to unity in our communities, regions, districts and at national levels. The link between the employers and their employees manifest the existence of oneness. This is in the sense that there will be good relations between the two as they help each other with ideas in the running of the business. To add to this, agreements of partnership between two or more different companies show the uplifting of the dominant firms to be known of their existence in the country. This shows support among companies in moving their businesses ideas and skills ahead, thus spelling unity. Together we can conquer, churches are of a paramount importance in securing unity in the country. There is a group known as ‘interdenominational’ where different church members can form a group and become one whether one is a Catholic, Anglican, Apostle or a Pentecostal. The nation as a whole can also pray together for problems that the country will be facing. For instance, during the lockdown period President E D Mnangagwa called on all church leaders to gather and pray over the deadly Covid-19 virus. That no arguments were raised over the request showed unity between the President and the people. UNITY is love; UNITY is power.  Chelon Nyabote Great Zimbabwe University I would have curled safely in one of her wounds without evoking a single shriek from her. If I had been able to acknowledge her ability to metamorphose continuous verbal abuse into a sweet lovely song I should have appreciated her more. Her voice must have broken down into sobs in between the lullabies. The fluctuations in her voice must have educed a giggle or two of mine. They must have been critical to my amusement. Now that I think about it, I would have failed to recognize her without her black eye. Disheartening as it may be, looking through the lenses with which I saw her then, I am prompted to employ a possessive pronoun. Perhaps it had become as permanent as her distress. Despite the occasional trickle of tears her eyes must have remained lucid. There was warmth in her embrace despite the cold shoulders her world gave her. It is unfortunate that this warmth must have thawed the ice and drowned her in wretchedness. It is unfortunate. I can only but vent my anger at my haplessness. If, however, I am to unleash my exasperation then it would be channelled towards my fellow countrymen. Her screams for help must have been lost in the turmoil of violent protests in the streets.