The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere Herald Reporter A leading tile manufacturing company has called on the Government to craft policies that protect local industries against unfair foreign competition. Giant Norton-based firm — Sunny Yi Feng (Pvt) Limited — employs nearly 2 000 people in the manufacture of floor tiles, roofing tiles, bricks, cement pipes, cups, plates, wooden pallets and cardboard boxes. President Mnangagwa’s administration has identified the manufacturing sector as a key enabler in attaining an upper middle income economy by 2030. The country has plans to boost the manufacturing sector under its economic revival strategy, as it has a critical role to play in satisfying the local and export markets. Sunny Yi Feng managing director Mr Cheng Guofeng said authorities should consider levying taxes on imported goods which are manufactured locally. “Our appeal is to protect the local investment by levying taxes on imported goods that are also manufactured locally. We are exporting most of our products to foreign countries and in these countries, we are levied extra tax. “We have invested $40 million in this project and we are looking at expanding our operations here. We are earning foreign currency for Zimbabwe and like I said, those importing products that are manufactured locally should pay extra tax,” said Mr Guofeng. The company initially started off making floor tiles but has now diversified and now produces roofing tiles usually identified with building structures at the Forbidden City in Beijing, China. The company has the capacity to produce 600 000 square metres of roofing tiles a month, but is yet to make full value of their capacity as they are still penetrating the market. Mr Guofeng said since their product was still new on the market, they were doing free installation for customers. “Our roofing tiles do not have a big market as yet, but we have the capacity to produce tiles that cover 600 000 square metres a month. At the moment, we are not utilising our full potential.” “The idea is to increase our production figures so that we can service a bigger foreign market, as well as employ more local people. We aim to become a dominant player in the tiling industry and bring the world into the tiling age,” said Mr Guofeng. The latest version of the roofing tiles is lighter than the cement version, durable, and is proofed for both sound and heat. The manufacturers also say it is environmentally friendly, does not fade in colour and is not affected by weathering. Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce president Dr Tinashe Manzungu buttressed the call by the manufacturer for the protection of local industries. “The call to authorities is always to consider levying more taxes on imported goods which are manufactured locally so as to protect local industries,” said Dr Manzungu.