The Herald Sports Reporter
CHAIRPERSON of the Portfolio Committee on Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Mathias Tongofa, has said there is need to recognise the contribution sport makes to the economy and improve funding to unlock its full potential. He made the remarks after a post budget review analysis they had with the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation yesterday in Harare which touched on all the sectors the Ministry oversees. Permanent Secretary in the Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Thokozile Chitepo, presented their report on the allocation they got from the 2021 national budget, highlighting their original bid and what they got. The Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Ministry was allocated $3,4 billion. Among issues highlighted, during the interactive meeting, include participation of local teams and athletes in regional, continental and international events. Some of the major events lined up for next year are the Olympic Games and the Paralympics. Tongofa raised concerns over the funding of the arts sector and the completion of the ongoing refurbishments of the National Sports Stadium. “The other issue is the National Sports Stadium, we ran the risk of not actually hosting any football match in the country. “But what are the implications? One, sport is a unifier . . . So it’s an area that we think we need to put more emphasis on. “When we are hosting it drives other industries, the tourism industry, hotels will get money our businesses. “When people are getting into the stadium we get revenue, it drives other industries but it does so indirectly to the extent that maybe, the Minister, may not know the importance of those stadiums and sporting facilities,” said Tongofa. Chitepo said the meeting was an opportunity to share with the Committee what they can achieve from what they received. Among their priorities is refurbishment of infrastructure across their different sectors. “In some cases, we have been given sufficient funds but in many cases we were given far less what we were targeting. “And, that is where we now want to look more carefully, as to see where else do we need to receive more funds, for those very important areas, such as, for example, participation in sporting events. “Zimbabwe’s participation in the Africa Union Region sports events, we did not receive enough to send a decent delegation, a decent team for participation. “With less participation, then we are not giving a chance for the country to present itself. “And, also, for our athletes to compete and to build their own portfolios. “We certainly want to improve our participation in the Paralympic Games, which will be held next year.’’