The Herald TURIN. — Cristiano Ronaldo celebrated reaching the phenomenal milestone of 750 career goals on Wednesday night by moving swiftly on to his next target. The Juventus striker grabbed the landmark goal during his side’s 3-0 victory over Dynamo Kiev on Wednesday night. Having achieved his latest feat, Ronaldo took to his Instagram to post a message of thanks to those that have helped him along the way. And in doing so, the 35-year-old revealed he has no thoughts on ending his relentless pursuit of goals any time soon, insisting that the 800—mark was now firmly in his sights. “750 goals, 750 happy moments, 750 smiles in the faces of our supporters,’’ he wrote after the match on Wednesday. “Thank you to all the players and coaches that helped me reach this amazing number, thank you to all my loyal opponents that made me work harder and harder every day. “But above all, thanks to my wonderful family, always present in my best and worst moments. Next stop: 800 goals! Let’s go!’’ The strike against the Ukrainian side was his 75th for the Italian champions, with the majority of his strikes coming for Real Madrid. The Portuguese star scored an incredible 450 times for the Spanish giants, while having also netted 118 times for Manchester United, and five times for Sporting Lisbon. He also has 102 goals on the international stage for Portugal. He has hit the landmark before rival Lionel Messi, who is only on 712 goals at the moment for club and country. Real Madrid have lost more Champions League group games since Ronaldo left than they did in his NINE YEARS at the club. On Tuesday, Shakhtar Donetsk became the second team, in three seasons, to complete the double over Los Blancos at that stage of the competition. CSKA Moscow’s managed two group stage victories over Real Madrid two years ago. And, remarkably, Real have now lost five of their 17 group stage matches since Ronaldo left for Juventus in 2018. By contrast, the Spanish giants were defeated just THREE times out of 54 in Ronaldo’s nine campaigns between 2009-10 and 2017-18. In four of those seasons, Ronaldo, and his teammates, went on to win the competition. During Ronaldo’s time at the Bernabeu, the only group losses came at home to AC Milan (October 2009) and away to Borussia Dortmund (October 2012) and Tottenham (November 2017). However, immediately after the Portuguese star’s departure, Real went down in both matches against CSKA Moscow in the 2018-19 season. Last year, finalists Paris Saint-Germain earned a 3-0 win in France before the paid of Shakhtar shockers this season. And, the defeats to the Ukrainian champions — who lost their two matches to Borussia Monchengladbach 6-0 and 4-0 — piles the pressure on Zinedine Zidane and his side to deliver in their final group game next week. Real go into their crunch clash with Monchengladbach third in Group B on seven points, level with Shakhtar — behind on their head-to-head record – and one behind the Germans. It means Zidane’s men cannot afford to lose at the Estadio Alfredo Di Stefano next Wednesday or they will crash out at the group stage for the first time in their Champions League history. Victory would guarantee their passage as they would move on to ten points. But a draw would leave Los Blancos relying on Inter Milan to help out by beating Shakhtar at the San Siro. When the pressure is on, though, and Real have needed to find a result in the final matchday of a Champions League group, they have gone through in all six instances. While Real Madrid suffered another defeat in midweek, 24 hours later Ronaldo was on target with his 750th career goal to help Juventus beat Dynamo Kiev. Juventus have confirmed their place in the knockout stages but will need a big win in the Nou Camp next week to pip Barcelona to top spot. — Daily Mail/The Sun.