The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter THE Government has started mobilising resources to complete renovation of the National Sports Stadium, including the installation of bucket seats. The upgrade is expected to be completed by March next year. The giant stadium was banned from hosting high-profile international matches by CAF after failing to meet requirements early this year. But, the venue was given a temporary reprieve, ahead of the 2021 AFCON qualifiers between the Warriors and African champions Algeria. FC Platinum will also use the stadium to host their CAF Champions League opponents, starting with the preliminary round, second leg tie against Mozambique side Costa do Sol this Saturday. CAF gave the stadium the reprieve after taking into consideration the efforts the Government made when they took advantage of the Covid-19-enforced break in football activities to work on upgrading the stadium. Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Deputy Minister, Tino Machakaire, yesterday told The Herald the Government was already mobilising the required resources to bring the National Sports Stadium to the required standards. “You may be aware that the clearance given to the National Sports Stadium to host international matches, including that 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier, second leg tie between the Warriors and Algeria on November 16, and other upcoming games involving the country’s CAF Champions league representatives FC Platinum, is temporary,” said Machakaire. “But, as Government, we are very happy with that development. “CAF had flagged several aspects which needed to be addressed at the venue, and we actually defied the difficulties associated with Covid-19, to rectify most of those areas. “However, as the scourge threatened every facet of life, we had to halt operations since there were a lot of difficulties, in terms of all the logistics involved. “We didn’t rest, though, and surrender to fate. “Instead, we made efforts to communicate with ZIFA who, in turn, communicated with CAF on the progress we had done to comply with the requirements. “Since some of the outstanding areas, which were flagged by CAF, have more to do with spectator safety and control, we just prayed the football authorities would pardon us and we were glad when they did. “But, we should also make sure that we make the most of the time we have, between now and March, to work on what’s left as far as the renovations are concerned.” Machakaire said Government was going ahead with its plans to enlist a local supplier for the provision of bucket seats. Originally, Government wanted to procure bucket seats from abroad for three stadiums, including the giant stadium, Sakubva and Barbourfields. But, the authorities have since found out that it will be cheaper to work with local suppliers, starting with the National Sports Stadium. “We are sticking with our earlier decision to procure the bucket seats from local suppliers. “We want to empower our local people and, besides, there is a lot of convenience involved. “We need to work on the bucket seats issue, as well as the turnstiles, we will have to complete the renovations by March next year.”