The Herald THE International Cricket Council (ICC) yesterday announced the rescheduled qualification pathway to the ICC Under-19 Men’s Cricket World Cup 2022 in the West Indies, where 33 teams will compete for five World Cup spots. The 14th edition of the event which takes place in the West Indies in early 2022 will involve Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, South Africa, Sri Lanka, West Indies and Zimbabwe by virtue of their top 11 finish in the 2020 edition. The remaining five spots will be determined by regional qualification. Qualification for the 2022 edition of the Under-19 Men’s Cricket World Cup was delayed by a year due to COVID-19. The 33 spots will be decided by seven regional events starting in June 2021. Due to the depth in strength in the Africa and Asia regions, a two-division qualification pathway will take place. Teams from the other three regions, Americas, EAP and Europe will have a one division qualifying process, with the winner of each regional Qualifier claiming one of the five coveted ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup 2022 places. The road to the West Indies which showcases the future stars of cricket, will begin in Tanzania with the Africa Division 2 in June 2021. The hosts, Botswana, Kenya, Mozambique, Rwanda and Sierra Leone will be fighting for two spots to join Namibia, Nigeria and Uganda in the Africa Qualifier in September 2021. The qualifier will be hosted by Nigeria who competed in their first ever ICC event at the Under-19 Men’s Cricket World Cup 2020. The top team from the September event will secure their spot in the West Indies. The Asia region which also has two divisions will see two qualifiers from Bhutan, Hong Kong, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and Thailand in Division 2 join Malaysia, Nepal and UAE nine in the Asia Qualifier to be hosted in the United Arab Emirates with the top team qualifying for the West Indies. The top team from the remaining qualifiers East-Asia Pacific, Europe and Americas will make up the Men’s U19 Cricket World Cup line-up. Schedule Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Africa Division 2 Qualifier Host – Tanzania Dates – June 2021 Participating Teams – Botswana, Kenya, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Tanzania Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Europe Qualifier Host – Scotland Dates – 30 July – 5 August 2021 Participating Teams – Denmark, Guernsey, Ireland, Jersey, Netherlands, Scotland Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Americas Qualifier Host – USA Dates– 18 – 25 August 2021 Participating Teams – Argentina, Bermuda, Canada, USA Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Africa Qualifier Host – Nigeria Dates – September 2021 Participating Teams – Namibia, Nigeria, Uganda, Africa Qualifier x2 Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup EAP Qualifier Host – Japan Dates – 28 September – 4 October 2021 Participating Teams – Indonesia, Japan, PNG, Vanuatu Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Asia Division 2 Qualifier Host – TBC Dates – TBC Participating Teams – Bhutan, Hong Kong, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Asia Qualifier Host – United Arab Emirates Dates – TBC Participating Teams – Malaysia, Nepal, UAE, Asia Qualifier x2 Event – ICC U19 Men’s Cricket World Cup Host – West Indies Dates – Q1 2022 Participating Teams – Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, South Africa, Sri Lanka, West Indies, Zimbabwe, Qualifiers x5 — ICC.com