The Herald Nomvelo Ndlovu
Great Zimbabwe University
SOCIETY is what moulds our roots. It is what defines humanity. Conflict also does the same but the difference is what we believe in, what we guard jealously, what we rely on for society to remain a cycle. Unity is the only outstanding factor. It is the quality of not being multiple, that oneness, that continuity without deviation or change which gives us purpose and concludes harmony. Take the year 1987 into mind and appreciate the most remarkable agreement of harmony ever made in the history of Zimbabwe. The year saw the signing of the unity accord between two political leaders, Robert Mugabe and Joshua Nkomo, with their sole aim being to end violence, discordance and disunity. Much to the surprise and disappointment of those whose minds were nursed on a diet of war conscience, hate and violence. Diplomacy played a pivotal role in ensuring the beginning of a new journey. This atmosphere created a sense of understanding, belonging and forgiveness. The genesis of equality, order, correspondence and correlation began but it was up to the masses to put this into practice. It is not what has been told but the action that follows hence unity was diplomatically agreed upon but the bigger question still remains; did the people adhere to what the leaders were emphasising? Take for instance the primary component which society is built upon — the family. They exist to provide safety and security for persons in the home. The first essential key to achieving family unity is commitment. It is the level of sacrifice that we are willing to make for the wholeness of our family unity that determines the strength a family has to external forces. As the saying goes, a house divided amongst itself cannot stand so it also applies to families. Through tolerance and acceptance, we become one. However, taking note of unity in diversity, it is therefore possible to argue that components such as marriages and family are viewed these days as temporary. There is little or no loyalty, selfishness and self-centredness, which can easily get in the way of harmony. In contrast, people have come to embrace unity without uniformity and diversity without fragmentation. It is vital to point out that unity in diversity is based on an understanding that difference enriches human interactions and creates room for peace and order than unity in uniformity which is just but mere tolerance of physical, cultural, linguistic, social, religious, political, and/or ideological differences. Unity can, therefore, be viewed as that which fosters harmony and requires commitment and team work of every individual.