The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter WITH the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe looking at improved performances at international, continental and regional events, they are seeking to host some regional events to provide the needed competition for the athletes. Zimbabwe last hosted a major event for seniors in 2017 when they had the Southern Region Senior Championships at the National Sports Stadium in Harare. The national association is hoping to improve qualification and results from such competitions as the World Championships, Africa Senior Championships as well as continental and world junior events. Next year’s World Championships were moved to 2022 following the postponement of the Olympic Games to next year. This means there will be two consecutive World Championships in 2022 and 2023. NAAZ president, Tendai Tagara, said as part of the build-up to the world event they would want to host an invitational meet and regional event in 2022 and 2023 respectively. “Hosting such events means more of our athletes can take part because it’s at home. We don’t have any expenses in terms of travelling. We can spend more money on development and training rather than transport. “Having a bigger group of athletes competing for honours to be in the national team means improved times as they compete for places. It also pushes them to perform to the maximum because they have the home support. “We have two consecutive World Championships because of the postponed 2021 edition. So this will be part of our build up for the events. Both the invitational and regional event will be held before the global meeting,” Tagara said. While the national association seeks improved performances, they have to push for track and field events as local athletes appear to be struggling to make the standards to the global competition. Long-distance runners have had some encouraging performances managing to qualify top the World Championships and last year Zimbabwe had four distance runners — Rutendo Nyahora, Isaac Mpofu, Ngonidzashe Ncube and Munyaradzi Jari — competing in Doha, Qatar. They were joined by triple jumper Chengetayi Mapaya. In 2017 Zimbabwe fielded a team of long-distance runners only after track and field athletes failed to qualify. It’s a trend they need to look at and create an enabling environment for local athletes. Zimbabwe last had a track athlete qualifying for the World Championships in 2015 when Tatenda Tsumba qualified for 200m. Meanwhile, 12 coaches completed an International Level One course that ended on Wednesday at the National Sports Stadium. The course started on December 14 and was facilitated by NAAZ director for coaching, talent identification and development Lisimati Phakamile “We had 12 coaches instead of the normal 24 because of Covid-19. We were trying to make sure we are within the regulations. The coaches came from different parts of the country and I am happy we had a very good number of coaches from private schools. “Those schools handle some of our best sprinters,” Tagara said. The national association has released their calendar of events and competition is set to resume early next year, starting with cross-country events in different provinces.