The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AS the Under-21 women entered their second week of group trainings, for the Junior World Cup qualifiers, players are excited to be back on the astro turf. The qualifiers are set to be held in Ghana, in March. Among the foreign-based players, who are already here, is Georgia Allardice, who made both the Under-21 and the senior side set to compete in the Central-South Africa tournament in February. The New Zealand-based player had a full season at the University of Otago. Allardice said it was an honour to make both squads and is happy to be bonding with the rest of the squad. “It’s a big honour to be in both squads and, I think, it’s really nice because both coaches are considerate and they make sure you are not burning-out and you are doing the right things. “We played a season in New Zealand because Covid-19 isn’t that bad there, so we played the whole season, which is really nice. “My expectations are just to keep learning and growing, and learning to play better in the team,” said Allardice. Zimbabwe will be vying for the only slot left for the African continent at the World Cup in South Africa. The hosts got the other slot. Allardice believes qualifying will boost the local game and might open opportunities that will enable the continuous growth of the sport. “I think it’s really important because Zimbabwe hockey is growing and this will push us to go further. “Maybe, we could get more funds and stuff like that so that we could train more because we can compete. “We have the talent to compete at the higher level. We just need the facilities and the push to know that we can do it,” said Allardice. Zimbabwe were at the previous Junior World Cup in Chile and will be hoping to return to the event next year. For Rumbidzai Zimuto, the 2016 qualification to the world event, is inspiring her to make the final team. “It’s just an inspiration to know that, as Zimbabweans, we are able to compete on an international scale such as that and so it inspired me to work on my own hockey skills. “For the qualifiers, I want to do well on a personal level but I want the country to do well, too, because we are coming up,’’ said Zimuto. The technical team are expecting to trim the squad this weekend to around 30 players and the final team will be named next month.