The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
MODESTER Mupachikwa versus Tasmeen Granger, who will have the last laugh? Takashinga Sports Club in Harare’s Highfield suburb is the place to be today as the high-flying Eagles and Tuskers bring the curtain down on the domestic women’s T20 cricket tournament. Eagles finished top of the four-team table, ahead of Tuskers, to book their place in the final of the inaugural Women’s T20 competition. The Fifty50 Challenge Cup also comes to a close tomorrow, at the same venue, and will feature the top two sides, Mountaineers and Rhinos. The game will again be played at Takashinga.  Unfortunately, only a limited number of spectators are allowed into the venue, because of Covid-19 health protocols. Mupachikwa has been in sizzling form with the bat for Eagles while Granger was the star player for the Bulawayo side, with both the bat and the ball, during in the women’s T20 tournament. The Eagles skipper led the side to the top, with 194 runs in six innings, scored at an average of 64.67. She was the second highest scorer, behind Mary-Anne Musonda of Rhinos, who had 239 runs at the end of the group games. “It’s always a result of team work but, as an individual, I think I did my part,” said Mupachikwa. “I tried to do my best, every time I was on the field. “But, I feel I still need to improve and probably help carry my team home in this final.’’  Eagles and Tuskers met in the opening game of the season and it was a one-sided affair. The Harare side won by nine wickets. Mupachikwa led the rout, after scoring an unbeaten 48 from 46 deliveries. “Obviously, the final is always a different ball game altogether,’’ said Mupachikwa. “We may have beaten them before but the approach always differs, when it comes to final matches. “It’s anyone’s game but we hope to stick to our game plan and win it.’’ The Harare side had nine points in the bag, at the completion of the six laps of round-robin matches. They played six and won five matches. The other players to watch out for in this final are Precious Marange, Christabel Chatonzwa and Esther Mbofana, who had not done much since taking 4/12 in the opening match against Tuskers. Tuskers have found inspiration from Granger’s form. The all-rounder leads the bowling charts with seven wickets to her name and is also the tournament’s third highest run-scorer. She has raked up 135 runs from five innings and has a good average of 45. Tuskers captain, Nomvelo Sibanda, is excited by the team’s progress and has tipped Granger to continue with her fine form in the final. “I think Tasmeen has done very well in this tournament and has helped the team win some games. “We just hope she continues with such fine form,” said Sibanda. Tuskers come into the final with spirits high after beating Rhinos by six runs through the Duckworth-Lewis-Stern method at Kwekwe Sports Club last week. They also received a timely boost, ahead of the battle, when they were presented with training gear worth about US$1 000 by Bulawayo businessman, Dumisani Madzivanyathi, who owns E68 Butchery. “I will not reveal our game plan but we obviously want to win the final. Of course, we lost our first match to Eagles but we have been improving with each passing game. “Each game was a lesson for us. So, we have to get the basics right,” said Sibanda. Today’s  Fixtures Women’s T20 Final Eagles v Tuskers (Takashinga Sports Club) Women’s Fifty50 Challenge Cup Mountaineers v Rhinos (Takashinga Sports Club)