The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS goalkeeper Simba Chinani found his way back into the senior national football team for the 2021 CHAN tournament yesterday after Warriors head coach Zdravko Logarusic trimmed his squad down to 23 ahead of the final phase of preparations for the tournament set for Cameroon next month. Chinani, who had been released from the provisional squad to pave way for his DeMbare teammate Taimon Mvula to be assessed, was named in the group that is expected to resume training in Harare today. The DeMbare goalkeeper is one of the three goalkeepers in the department that also has Highlanders captain Ariel Sibanda and Nelson Chadya of Ngezi Platinum Stars. The Warriors players were last week given time off to be with their families for the Christmas holidays and they regroup today in Harare, with chances high that those called up for the final camp are the same players who are heading off to Cameroon. The Warriors have exactly two weeks to fine-tune themselves ahead of the expected departure on January 11. “The coaches have been busy working on the squad and have shortlisted 23 players who are expected to start reporting for camp today (yesterday),” said team manager, Wellington Mpandare. “Training will start tomorrow (today) and unless something drastic happens, these are the players that are expected to do duty for Zimbabwe at the CHAN tournament in Cameroon.” Also in the squad is the quartet of Richard Hachiro, Leeroy Mavunga, Peter Muduhwa and King Nadolo who had been doubtful after picking up injuries during the preparations. The medical team has been working overtime to manage the players’ conditions so that they will be ready for action by the time the first match kicks-off in Cameroon on January 16. “Of course there have been some concerns but the reports coming from the doctors have indicated that they are out of danger. So they are still part of the squad,” said Mpandare. After a month of assessments, during which coach Logarusic has opened the doors to look at more players to bolster the squad that had been recommended to him by his two assistants Tonderai Ndiraya and Lloyd Chitembwe, it appears the Croat now has reached some level of satisfaction. Logarusic, who arrived in the country early this year, has not had a chance to see the players in action after domestic football failed to kick-off this season because of the coronavirus pandemic. He has been chopping and changing his squad at every turn ever since his side began to indulge in practice matches against domestic Premiership sides. As a result, the Warriors coach managed to retain only 14 players from his original 34-member squad, as nine new faces made it into the final selection. Those who managed to survive the chop include Partson Jaure, Ian Nekati, Qadr Amin, Andrew Mbeba, Muduhwa, Wellington Taderera, Leeroy Mavunga, Tatenda Tavengwa, Nadolo, Obriel Chirinda and the surprise package Pawell Govere of new Division One outfit, Golden Eagles. Ngezi Platinum Stars midfielder Denver Mukamba was among the late entrants who also included Talent Chamboko, Carlos Mavhurume, Tafadzwa Jaravani, Richard Hachiro, Ronald Chitiyo, Tawanda Nyamandwe, Gabriel Nyahwa and Farawo Matare. The players were slotted in after practice matches were arranged for the Warriors while they were in camp and played against some of the Premier Soccer League teams such as Bulawayo Chiefs, Dynamos, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Herentals, FC Platinum, Manica Diamonds and CAPS United. During the course of the practice matches, Logarusic also dropped the likes of Phineas Bamusi, Valentine Musarurwa, William Manondo, Collins Duwa, Xolani Ndlovu and Valentine Kadonzvo from the squad. Warriors team manager, Mpandare, said the final squad has to be submitted to the Confederation of African Football at least 10 days before the start of the CHAN tournament. Zimbabwe were placed in Group A alongside hosts Cameroon, Burkina Faso and Mali in the group stage of the competition, which is exclusively reserved for players plying their trade in their domestic leagues. The Warriors will feature in the opening match against the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon on January 16. Warriors squad for CHAN Goalkeepers: Ariel Sibanda (Highlanders), Simba Chinani (Dynamos), Nelson Chadya (Ngezi) Defenders: Peter Muduwa (Highlanders), Partson Jaure (Dynamos), Tafadzwa Jaravani (CAPS Utd), Ian Nekati (Chicken inn), Qadr Amini (Ngezi), Carlos Mavhurume (CAPS Utd), Pawell Govere (Golden Eagles), Andrew Mbeba (Highlanders), Talent Chamboko (Manica Diamonds) Midfielders: Richard Hachiro (CAPS Utd), Ronald Chitiyo (CAPS Utd), Gabriel Nyahwa (Byo (Chiefs), Wellington Taderera (Ngezi), Leeroy Mavunga (CAPS Utd), Tatenda Tavengwa (Harare City), King Nadolo (Dynamos), Denver Mukamba (Ngezi) Strikers: Obriel Chirinda (Chicken inn), Tawanda Nyamandwe (Manica Diamonds), Farawo Matare (Bulawayo Chiefs)