The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ANOTHER Zimbabwean football gem is being polished in the Leicester City football club’s factory and in a few years’ time it should not be surprising to hear the name Reece Evans stepping up to the big stage. Evans is the latest product of Zimbabwean heritage in the Foxes pipeline after Under-18 midfielder Tawanda Jethro Masvanhise and Admiral Muskwe, who is now a key member of the Leicester City Under-23 side and a fringe Zimbabwe national team player. It may sound too early to start singing the praises but the 15-year-old Evans, born of Zimbabwean parents, is one of the most promising talents in the Foxes development. England-based former Zimbabwean footballer Charlie White has had the privilege to watch the youngster in action and believes Evans has all the makings of a world class footballer. Born of Bulawayo parents, Norman Evans and Jolene Brandt, the powerfully built six-foot-tall footballer could be one for the future as he is already being tracked by scouts from numerous clubs and the England junior national teams. “I say this because I have witnessed this Leicester City Football Club lad perform against Arsenal, Watford, Chelsea, Coventry and Derby raise spectators’ eyebrows and fans asking ‘who the heck is this kid?’ “Leicester City are protecting this gem as many top Premier League teams, Spanish La Liga and Italian Serie-A seem to be peeping to monitor his progress. “Reece sometimes plays for the Under-16 and Under-17s as he seems to perform better as he is so dominating in his age-group,” said White. Evans was born in England 15 years ago. Apparently, he has to draw inspiration from two more Zimbabwean players ahead of him, Muskwe and Masvanhise, who also joined the Foxes at tender ages. Muskwe was born in Harare in 1998 and relocated with his family to England when he was three years-old. He has grown in the system to become a key member of the club’s development side. He has scored crucial goals, including a brace in the 3-3 draw that took them to the last 16 of Papa John’s Trophy following a penalty shootout victory at Sky Bet League 2 outfit Salford City this week. Muskwe has just returned from a loan spell at Swindon Town and has so far netted three times from two starts, as he aims to knock on Leicester City’s first team doors. England-born midfielder Masvanhise has also been on the rise and has featured in almost every game of the Under-18 side this season. Masvanhise is the son of former top Zimbabwe sprinter, Jeffery Masvanhise, who represented the country at the big stage including the All-Africa Games and the Commonwealth Games between 1998 and 2002. But White believes Evans, the latest of the Leicester City Zimbabwean findings, has the potential to eclipse them all. “The reason I say he has the makings is that I base his act on the following: exquisite ball skills in midfield or even playing upfront as a target man. The positioning when upfront reminds one of prolific scorer, Highlanders’ former player Mark Watson. “Reece knows when to peel off a defender and position himself in a scoring area. He can take on the whole defence if he so wishes, but has to play to instructions from the Leicester City bench. “But sometimes when the chips are down, he takes it upon himself to do the wonders all talented players do for the team. “His genius in the midfield position of holding and if need to dribble his way like that of a schemer who can thread that all important or final pass well weighed for whoever is playing upfront is phenomenal. “Those that know and remember late midfield player Archieford Chimutanda, who played for Black Aces, Arcadia United and Dynamos, will enjoy watching the sublime skills of Reece in the links. Once in possession of the ball, forget trying to mug him, the lad is so strong defenders are left frustrated. “Then there is that booming and thunderous shot with both feet in the mould of David Zulu, a former Arcadia United star, from anywhere within shooting range leaves one wondering again ‘who the heck is this kid.’ “Reece has been taught to defend as well as attack and has had the English national team scouts look at him,” said White. Unlike Muskwe, who once played for the England Under-17 side, Reece is yet to get any call up at junior level. “Norman, a proud Zimbabwean of the Matabeleland Khumalo clan, would love to see his son play for Zimbabwe. However, the Covid-19 issue hinders any plans he may have for Reece. “Remember he can play for Zimbabwe or England and can decide when he reaches the FIFA required age who to play for. There is another choice though that he can play for Wales because of his ancestry lineage. “Brendon Rogers the Leicester City manager has also had a peep at this future asset for the club,” said White.