The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter
WITH the Rainbow Amateur Netball League season a write-off this year, players and coaches say they will have to go an extra mile to get back into shape to compete next year. There were hopes a tournament could be staged before the end of the year. But, the league’s secretary-general, Moses Gukurume, last week indicated it will not be possible to have games this year. They are now shifting their attention to next year, also remaining hopeful the environment becomes conducive to stage competitions, and they can have a normal season. Correctional Queens coach, Christopher Simeon, said it’s sad the Covid-19 pandemic has not spared them. “We already had problems for our pre-season, normally from the end of the season to the pre-season period, we are looking at three months of inactivity for players,’’ he said. “Now, we are looking at a year without being active, it’s a challenge. “If the games are allowed, we have to start earlier in 2021 and it’s going to be a challenge after a year of inactivity. “The period of pre-season is regarded as a transitional period where athletes rest, those that are injured get to heal. “But, a responsible athlete should not totally rest, you have to engage in another sport that is less demanding, to stay in shape, but looking at our players they need to be pushed. “Now, it’s a year, I don’t know how many can push to that extent.’’ The league was halted, just after a few games and, for players like ZDF Queens goal shooter Sharon Bwanali, it has been a disappointment after a promising start to the season. “We are now waiting for next year, we were hoping for a tournament but the year is almost coming to an end. “You look at Malawi, they were recently in South Africa for a series and we have nothing. “Of course, the pandemic is there but they could allow us a few days just to train, just for the players to be fit. “If we are allowed to play next year it will be difficult to get back into shape and it will take serious and intense programmes to get everyone back,” said Bwanali. Glow Petroleum coach, Perpetua Siyachitema, noted the prevailing situation will have long-term effects not just for the clubs but the national teams as well. With the departure of some senior players, soon after the World Cup, Siyachitema says this is the time to identify new players to beef up the national side. “I think it’s a big blow to us since we don’t have enough sponsorship, South Africa and Malawi managed to have a series. “We have the 2023 World Cup coming, and the qualifiers in 2022, this is the time to start working towards that. “This is the time to be trying new players,” said Siyachitema.