The Herald SINGAPORE. — The Global Esports Federation are marking a major milestone this month, celebrating their first anniversary with the inaugural edition of the #worldconnected series (#wcs20). It’s a community initiative inspired by the Global Esports Federation’s values of equality, fair play, diversity, inclusion, and innovation. The #wcs20, which runs from 17-19 December 2020, comprising GEFcon — the Global Esports Convention — and a global collective of esports community events. GEFcon is a thought leadership platform, as well as leading ideas and innovation incubator, developed in partnership with the GEF’s partner, Sports Innovation Lab. GEFcon will feature exclusive live webinar sessions, and a series of sessions on-demand, designed for the collective benefit of esports. “It has been an eventful year since we embarked on the mission to establish the credibility, legitimacy, and prestige for esports at the worldwide launch of the Global Esports Federation in Singapore,” said Chris Chan, president, Global Esports Federation. “The first #worldconnected series and GEFcon is truly a global platform bringing together our Member Federations and Partners in support of our mission — cultivating collaborations, forging synergies, developing and growing the connections between esports and sport in communities across the world.” Sports Innovation Lab said they were proud to partner GEF. “Sports Innovation Lab is proud to partner with the Global Esports Federation to develop GEFcon, bringing leaders from across the esports and sporting communities to share ideas, and to ignite the essential conversations about values that need to happen today,” said Angela Ruggiero, co-founder and chief executive, Sports Innovation Lab. The Esports Community Events welcome the world’s esports community to a series of Regional Esports Competitions hosted by the GEF’s Member Federations across seven regions in the world — Caribbean, Europe, Middle East and North Africa, North America, South America, Southeast Asia, and Sub-Sahara Africa. “We are overwhelmed at the support from our Member Federations across the world in hosting this community initiative,” said Kelvin Tan, director of Esports, Global Esports Federation. “The #wcs20 cements the Global Esports Federation’s commitment in developing forward-thinking and future oriented initiatives in service to the esports community. ‘’We look forward to welcoming the world’s esports athletes and players in this global celebration.” The #wcs20 Esports Community Events* is presented by: 1. Caribbean: Caribbean Esports Federation Alliance (CEFA) 2. Europe: Poland — Esports Association Polska 3. Middle East & North Africa: Saudi Arabia — Saudi Arabian Federation for Electronic and Intellectual Sports (SAFEIS) 4. North America: USA – United States Esports Association 5. South America: Paraguay — Asociación de Esports del Paraguay and Brazil — Brazilian Games and Esports Confederation 6. Southeast Asia: Singapore — Singapore Esports Association (SGEA) 7. Sub-Sahara Africa: Nigeria — Lagos ESports Forum — GEF.