The Herald Michelle Mazvita Kapanyota Vista Vision College
… continued from previous week On the edge of the ground, far away from the others, the two boys spoke heatedly to each other. Blossom saw the black vapor start surrounding Brave. She herself saw a beautiful blossom of flowers start spreading on the very ground she sat. How could the Butterfly Rebels not tell Jeffrey not to mess with Brave? Some people call snakes friends. Kudakwashe saw the blossom and looked up at Blossom. “What’s wrong?” he asked backing off. Forgive him for doing so but experience had taught him to stay away when the girl was in either extreme moods. She smiled and the flowers caught fire and went up in smoke. She then rolled her eyes, slightly agitated and the flowers sprang forth again. She pointed at Brave and Jeffrey. “Oh my gosh. Why didn’t his friends warn him?” Kuda asked. “Beats me,” Blossom said standing up. “And where do you think you are going?” “To stop Brave from making yet another mistake.” “Why do you bother? He hates you,” Kuda said throwing his hands up in the air dramatically. “I’m coming back.” Blossom marched towards the boys leaving a luscious carpet of beauty trailing behind her. She had not known what exactly she would do when she reached them and she still didn’t. So she just stood behind Brave. “I don’t care, Brave. And stop with the dark, I’m the Devil’s son look.It doesn’t suit you,” Jeffrey was saying. Blossom gasped. Who the hell does this boy think he is? Just then Brave made a move as if to start striking Jeffrey. With all the strength in her body, she made a fight response and pushed Brave.  He didn’t lose balance but he didn’t direct his assault at Jeffrey. He turned abruptly and saw Flower Girl behind him. The ticklish feeling must have started on his back for he tried to scratch his back a bit. “Now what?” Blossom thought. She was spared from further thoughts by Brave who launched an assault on her. The pain was excruciating as blow after bow came. And with each renewed and exulted pain, the flowers spread faster across the school ground which had been winter-bare a few seconds ago. Slowly but surely Blossom fell unconscious. Kudakwashe had looked on in dismay as Blossom walked towards the school bully. What did she intend to do anyway? That guy was trouble. Yes, he liked Blossom but no one could tame Brave. Kudakwashe scratched his head and analysed his heart quickly. He had a mega crush on The Flower Girl. But why didn’t Blossom return his feelings? He was so loyal. Always by her side even during the fire break-outs. Yet she chose to save that giraffe’s neck every time he was almost in trouble. As he was thinking he heard a loud thud which snapped him back into reality. He gasped for the sight which greeted him was unthought of. Who would have ever thought that Brave would strike Blossom? She was his voice of reason no matter how much he tried to hide or deny it. But right before his eyes, Brave pounded her over and over again. The flowers were spreading rapidly across the school yard which meant his best friend was in pain, extreme pain. Kuda sprang to his feet and ran to where they were. “Brave, please stop. You’ll kill her,” he shrieked. Brave did not heed him. Jeffrey had lurched to the side as Brave made to attack him. He misplaced his foot and fell into a ditch on his side. That was the very ditch he had planned on placing Brave after he had beaten him. But he was stuck in there. “Well once in a while you ought to taste your own medicine,” he said chuckling. He had expected Brave to peer on the edge of the ditch but he didn’t. “Wow! So this guy thinks that the fight is over? He’s got something else coming,” Jeffrey said as he stood up and dusted himself. He slowly climbed out of the ditch. When he was about to climb out, he heard a shrilly voice scream, “Brave, please stop. You’ll kill her.” Jeffrey was mystified. What was going on? He climbed out faster and when he emerged the sight that greeted him made him lose balance and he fell back. “How dare he pound a girl like that?” Jeffrey thought. He stood up quickly and before he could attempt the ascent again the hole was filled with pretty flowers. He tried climbing out but they were slippery. The pretty sight made him smile. Then he remembered the girl in Brave’s mercy. He moved backward a bit and closed his eyes in concentration. He felt himself lifting off the ground and opened his eyes for him to navigate. He levitated out of the pit and landed behind Brave. At times like these he was grateful for being chosen. A new boy was on the scene and he looked at him in awe. He hardly noticed him though. Jeffrey held Brave’s waist in an effort to pull him off the girl. He continued beating her, oblivious of the person holding his waist. Jeffrey had his advantage in surprise, so he quickly hurled him off her and threw him near the ditch. At that moment they heard the sound of the police sirens and heard a booming voice that said: “Put your hands where I see them or I’ll shoot.” None of the three boys had seen the other students deserting the ground. Due to the flowers on the ground and the invisible force that continued pushing him, Brave fell into the pit. He had not heard the sirens too, but now as he fell with a soft thud onto the floor of the pit, he heard them loud and clear. And that loud voice! That was something else. He hadn’t meant to lose his temper but he just did. And now he was in real trouble. Not with Mr Maurayi the school principal, but with his father, the head of Police. This time there were no excuses or “white” lies he could tell. He would pay for his stupidity and impulsive actions. As he was deep in thought, he heard people calling for the ambulance. Flower Girl was going to the hospital and it was all his fault. And that crazy Jeffrey kid too. 