The Herald Blessings Chidakwa
Herald Reporter
Several charity organisations have benefited from First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa’s benevolence after receiving an assortment of goods and foodstuffs to improve the welfare of the underprivileged. Four more organisations in Harare yesterday received foodstuffs and personal protective equipment (PPE) worth thousands of dollars as the First Lady continues her quest to help disadvantaged children and other vulnerable members of society. Amai Mnangagwa availed the early Christmas treat through the Angel of Hope Foundation which continues to play a pivotal role in lending a hand to the underprivileged across the country. The homes that received donations were St Marcellin Children’s Village in Hatfield, Tose Respite Care Centre (Waterfalls), Missionaries of Charity Old People’s home in Ardbennie and Isheanesu Multi-purpose Centre for the Disabled in Glen View. Executive director for Angel of Hope Foundation’s partner, United Nations SDG Health Partnership, Chitwan Malhotra, thanked the First Lady for the donations. “I feel very emotional, inspired, at the same time empowered after visiting homes that support children, the disabled and old people whom Amai Mnangagwa is supporting,” she said. Ms Malhotra said the groceries and other gifts would ensure that the children had a merry Christmas. “It gives me pleasure to be here today on behalf of Amai and the Angel of Hope Foundation. Amai strongly believes that when you empower children, you empower the nation because it is these children that are the future of Zimbabwe.” Missionaries of Charity Old People’s home in Ardbennie sister-in-charge Mary Vikashinilakra lauded the kind gesture. “We thank our dear mother who has taken her own time on making us happy by giving us these beautiful gifts. We never thought of this. I am grateful in the name of Jesus, thank you very much Amai. Thanks for thinking and caring for us,” she said. Tose Respite Care Centre supervisor Mrs Amelia Kwaramba thanked Amai for the early Christmas treat. “This not the first time assisting us. You are always supportive of us. Your ongoing contributions will go a long way in alleviating the needs of the people with disability,” she said. Isheanesu Multi-purpose Centre for the Disabled board chairperson Mrs Florence Kabayadondo also expressed gratitude to Amai Mnangagwa. “We are indeed happy with what Amai has done for the children. This kind gesture actually came as a wonderful Christmas surprise. May the dear Lord continue to bless her good works,” she said. St Marcellin Children’s Village co-founder Mrs Sybil MacDonald hailed Amai for the donations saying they would go a long way in lifting the spirits of the children this festive season. “It is heartening to note that there are people like Amai Mnangagwa who think about the welfare of the underprivileged. We are touched by this very kind gesture and we want to thank Amai for being there for us,” she said.    