The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter
COLLEN MAKAZA and Cephas Pasipamire have been around for some time and now they are trying to help others achieve their dreams. Makaza and Pasipamire were engaged by the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe to take charge of the Vumba camp for long distances runners seeking qualification for the Olympics. Others are targeting different races. They will be in Vumba for two weeks. “For the Olympics, we have Ngonidzashe Ncube and Isaac Mpofu. Those are the athletes who have the times to try and qualify for the Olympics. The other guys are training partners but, maybe, one or two can push for the qualifying times. “So far, it’s been good because most of those athletes are from ZRP athletic club and we have their coach, so it’s not like we are starting from scratch. We are helping each other, sharing ideas on which areas to improve. “We are working more on conditioning, at the moment, and then we move into training for the actual marathon. The high altitude is really helping,” said Makaza. The team is made up of Ngonidzashe Ncube, Isaac Mpofu, Ethel Sibanda, Misheck Sithole, Faith Sanyika, Olivia Chitate, Elijah Mabhunu, Canicious Wenjere, Winfred Mutiro, Abel Chibanda and Tryphina Picardo. Most of the athletes took part in the Beitbridge Mayor Half marathon last weekend. “Ngoni and Isaac need to take off time for the Olympics qualifiers. Most of them did well in Beitbridge, so, it means they are focused. “Besides being coaches, we are both still competing so we are there in the trenches with them, training also. We are also trying to make sure they are mentally strong because marathon is also about being mentally strong,” said Makaza. The former International Association of Ultra-runners 50km World champion is humbled to be handed the task to prepare the athletes for the upcoming season. “I am grateful to the association for recognising me as a coach because last year I attended the international middle and long distance coaching course Level Two in Kenya. “It shows they know I have something to offer, together with my colleague Cephas Pasipamire,” Makaza said. So far, all the targeted athletes for the Olympics are yet to make the times. Munyaradzi Jari is currently training in Kenya. “We are working on endurance and trying to make sure their muscles are strong,’’ said Pasipamire. “When running a marathon, you need endurance and strength, to push that is why we came here.”      