The Herald Branton Matondo
Midlands State University
From a student’s perspective, this year’s festive season will be received with a lot of expectations and high hopes. A major part of the year has been a laid back period for students, owing to the global Covid-19 pandemic. The latter part of the year was rushed academically. Therefore, Christmas and the New Year will be bearable for students, considering the fact that many students endured academic and structural adjustments during the past ten months of Covid-19, which is still far from over. To be honest, it has been a strenuous and cumbersome voyage. Continuity as mandatory. The transition from physical to virtual interactions in terms of academic participation appeared simple and conceivable to the outside world, but to most students, it has been an intense roller coaster ride demanding a considerable lot, whether data bundles, time and focus. Against such a background, the festive season will be most welcome. Planning for Christmas and the New Year will be joyous and full of merriment. It will be a moment for us to transition from the horrors of the massive scale of devastation wrought by the coronavirus-19. To that end, it will be a period we would like to forget and focus on spending time with our families, celebrating the season, and thankful for the gift of having survived the ravages of Covid-19. The New Year will be an occasion to celebrate with a view to opening a new page in our lives. So much time was lost during 2020 — that is spilt milk. What is critical is readying ourselves for the New Year because it will be the opening of a new chapter. In life everything one sweats for, is usually followed by the sweet rewards for the endeavours. We do so mindful of the fact that our academic journey is unfinished. ***** Whesly Handiseni Midlands State University Sometimes mind refreshment is needed in a person’s life as it is the best therapy to neutralize the brains. Students are the ones that suffer most due to pressure from studies. And different approaches are being enlisted by today’s youths to freshen up their minds from heavy burdens. Music, sporting and outings serve the role in the sense that they are a form of escapism for students from school work, assignments and researches. Music acts as a vehicle for transporting students away from their studies, during their free periods or spare time. At Midlands State University, most students can be seen gathered and socializing while music provides a soothing background. Amapiano, the most popular genre, also known as “zvigubhu” because of the instrumentals, helps students to unwind as it involves some dancing challenges. This acts as an ice-breaker/refresher as the beats and dances help one to relax. Most students find comfort in the rhythm of the music genre. Some, however, believe that sporting activities can help one detach completely from the pressures of academic work, thus enabling one to relax. Games, athletics and clubs are also other recourses for one to partake in and unwind, thereby putting aside the requirements of effort and a lot of concentration. Apart from music and sports, outings are a very effective form of therapy, helping to clear pressure on one’s mind. Towards weekends, students may plan what they wish to pursue in order to celebrate their weekend pleasurably in a manner that helps in relaxing the mind. Clubbing is also one of the activities available to students. They meet and gather at night clubs or bars for some drinks. However, some will be smoking and drinking strong stuff that leads to drunkenness. Some argue that being drunk is an effective way of clearing one’s mind and creating room for new information and ideas. Students, therefore, resort to all the above different activities as they seek to refresh their overloaded minds. **** Charity Sibanda Midlands State University The Government must not only lend students loans. It needs to extend graduate loans so that students have somewhere to start after completion of their studies. This will be far more helpful than having them stuck at home. Putting in place a scheme for student loans will prevent Zimbabwean graduates leaving the country. Tertiary institutions must also start training their students to be investors and entrepreneurs than just looking forward to being workers. Making it to tertiary institutions still remains a great achievement for everyone. Young people go to tertiary institutions in the hope of unlocking the doors to a beautiful future. Parents and guardians invest in their children by sending their children to colleges and universities in the hope that their children prepare themselves for a brighter future. But the country is facing serious challenges and the unemployment rate is high. Most companies are retrenching instead of hiring. Another scenario is where companies have long-serving workers with no room for recruiting new workers. Other companies are relying on interns instead of hiring full- time paid workers. When nepotism and the practice of hiring family members, friends and relatives of existing workers are factored, the plight of youths coming out of institutions of higher learning is correctly put into proper perspective. Things have turned out to be the opposite of what many expected. This is because there are many graduates out there chasing fewer job opportunities available on the market. Because of the prevailing employment situation, some have taken to social media to proclaim that, “In Zimbabwe, education is the key to South Africa”. While not entirely true, what is true is that there is a greater number of Zimbabweans in foreign lands, searching for greener pastures. Most young people go to school in the hope that at the end of their studies they will be hired by some companies. There is need to banish this thought. Young people need to begin to think of investing and starting new companies that will boost the country’s economy, creating new job opportunities. The Government must be involved in creating an environment and facilities that will enable youths to launch new ventures. ***** Anesu Saniro Midlands State University Enrolling at university is one of the most exciting things in a student’s life. However, this comes with responsibilities as for many it will be the first time to have to manage their own budgets and finances. Even though being at university offers one more freedom and financial independence, a good number of students still depend on their parents or guardians. Consequently, most students struggle to balance their budgets and often run out of money during the middle of the month. Basic requirements for university students include essentials such as food and non-essentials such as entertainment, alcohol, beauty products, latest fashion and gadgets as well as the need to fit in and cope with university lifestyle. Students spend 75 percent of their allowances on non-essentials, leaving little for food and school work-related expenses such as printing assignments. Some students have mastered the art of balancing their expenditures on essentials and non-essentials by taking up part-time jobs in order to finance their personal needs, thus avoiding the need to ask their parents or guardians for additional money. As students prepare to embark on university life after the Christmas and New Year break, there is need for careful budgeting lest they run the risk of exhausting their allowances during or soon after the first week of orientation.        