The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
GOALKEEPER Future Sibanda is set to be FC Platinum’s next signing as the champions seek to strengthen their squad ahead of the defence of their Castle Lager Premiership football crown. The platinum miners’ goalkeeping department was left depleted after Wallace Magalane decided against renewing his contract. Magalane, who was unhappy because of the lack of game-time, has since moved to CAPS United in search of fresh challenges. Sibanda is set to become the third goalkeeper and will be challenging club captain Petros Mhari and Francis Tizayi for the starting places. Club chairman, Evans Mtombeni, said FC Platinum, who have already unveiled seven new players, were still looking to add more players ahead of the start of the new season. “The idea is not to overhaul the squad. We are the defending champions of Zimbabwe as it stands,’’ he said. “So, it means the guys that we have in the team are capable of taking us where we want to be in terms of our objectives. “But, obviously, we need to replace the guys that have left and also to look at areas that we can also improve. “We want to improve each and every season. I think we have added about eight players.
“We have so far unveiled seven and the other one is a goalkeeper, Future Sibanda, formerly with Hwange, How Mine and was recently at ZPC Kariba. “He is going to be our third goalkeeper after Petros Mhari and Francis Tizayi.”
The platinum miners have given new coach Hendrik De Jongh the leeway to scout for players of his choice. FC Platinum recently demonstrated they mean business in 2020 when they unveiled seven highly-rated local players. Headlining the list of new players was Soccer Star of the Year first runner-up Ralph Kawondera and defender Donald Dzvinyai. ZPC Kariba’s attacking midfielder Godswill Gwara, Hwange defender Nomore Chinyerere, Highlanders’ Denzel Khumalo and the exciting duo of Last Jesi and Stanley Ngala from Manica Diamonds were among the seven unveiled by the Zvishavane-based side. The club said they were still in the hunt for three more players, two strikers and a goalkeeper. FC Platinum parted ways with six senior players — goalkeeper Magalane, Devon Chafa, Charles Sibanda, Rodwell Chinyengetere, Albert Eonde and Mkhokheli Dube following the expiry of their contracts.