The Herald WESLEY MADHEVERE could be the next big thing in Zimbabwe cricket. The teenage star played an impressive innings of 42 for Eagles on a day of rather disappointing batting overall at Harare Sports Club in the Logan Cup match against holders Mountaineers. Madhevere, on his first-class début after a fine career for the Zimbabwe Under-19 team, batted very impressively, handling the bowling well and showing good judgment. He scored 42 runs and was unfortunate to be out to a brilliant catch; he cut a ball from Mashinge hard but high, only for Wellington Masakadza in the gully to shoot his hands up and hold the ball. There were fifties from Roy Kaia and Richmond Mutumbami for the visitors, but generally it was a bowler’s day, without any one bowler being outstanding though. This was a vital match in the Logan Cup, with both teams equal at the top of the table with three victories in three matches and 17 points each. Both teams were depleted owing to the national side’s tour of Bangladesh: Eagles have two players on that tour and Mountaineers four. The match began in the now traditional way for Eagles’ home matches — they won the toss and put their opponents in to bat. Trevor Garwe, restored to his old role as spearhead of the Eagles attack, soon proved he deserves the honour, as a fine opening maiden over ended with a successful lbw appeal against Joylord Gumbie. His opening partner, Tinashe Chimbambo, did not last long, either. He misjudged a ball from Richard Ngarava so badly that he shouldered arms and found his leg stump knocked out of the ground, also without scoring. Kaia and Mutumbami now had to repair the damage, and both responded in positive fashion, attacking the bowling wisely and with Mutumbami even driving Garwe for six over long-on as the bowler lost some of his accuracy, and then did the same to Ngarava, both with perfect timing. Scores Mountaineers: 182 all out in 56.1 overs (Richmond Mutumbami 51, Roy Kaia 50, Kudzai Sauramba 32; Cuthbert Kamusoko 3/17, Trevor Garwe 3/36, Tapiwa Mufudza 2/66) Eagles: 102-4 in 32.5 overs (Wesley Madhevere 42, Chamu Chibhabha 28, Kudzai Maunze 13; William Mashinge 2/24, Tafadzwa Muzarawetu 1/21, Tinashe Muchawaya 1/28) Day 1 – Stumps: Eagles trail by 78 runs with six wickets remaining in the first innings — zimcricket.