The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Preparations for the Star FM Music Awards which will be held at Manna Resort in Glen Lorne, Harare this month and are strictly by invite, are now at an advanced stage. The awards, which honour local musicians in many genres and promote Zimbabwean music, will be held on February 22, running under the theme, “Music in Colour”. The nomination list for the awards was announced over the weekend. Zimpapers Radio Broadcasting Division general manager Comfort Mbofana said: “Our aim is to recognise the artistes who have done well in the period under adjudication and we need a fitting venue to do so, which is why we have settled on Manna Resort. “Preparations are at advanced stage.” After the nomination list came out, there were concerns raised over the submission requirements, with some people asking why artistes had to submit their names instead of the radio station nominating them since it plays their music. Mbofana said it is a requirement world over for an artiste to consent to being part of the process. “We looked at other music awards in the region and internationally and there is a universal requirement for artistes to enter the awards process by submitting their music for adjudication,” he said. Mbofana said despite calls for entries and an extension of the entries deadline, some artistes were not forthcoming. “We approached all artistes, including Winky D through his management, whom we deemed eligible for this year’s awards process and asked them to submit their entries,” he said. “We even facilitated resources at the station to assist in the submission processes. We had a good number of artistes who entered the competition and we had some who, for reasons best known to themselves, did not enter.” Mbofana said it was unfortunate that there were no entries for the sungura category. Below is the full nomination list: Best African pop song award: Ishan Featuring Ti Gonz – Kure Tamy Moyo – Kwandinobva Tamy Moyo – Zviroto Fusion 5 Mangwiro – African Woman Best Zimdancehall song award: Nutty O – Vroom Bazooka – Bodo Seh Calaz featuring Mambo Dhuterere – Reurura Best hip-hop song award: Ti Gonz – Mabazooka Takura – Noise Junior Brown – Loud P. D. Ghost Featuring Gze – 5 Pm Best RnB song award: Hilzy, Gary Mapanzure – TV Room Brian Nhira – Love love Nyasha David featuring Prosper – Die In Your Arms Brian K – Mai Vevana Best House song award: Novuyo Sea Girl – Bambelela Lloyd Soul – Lavida loca DJ Stavo Featuring Gemma – Bad News Sam Music – Vuka Best song by Zimbabwean in the diaspora award: Brian Nhira – Love love Norman Masamba – Chihera Vimbai Zimuto – Kurunga Nox Guni – I’m In Love Best Gospel song award: Janet Manyowa – Ndimi Joyful Praise – Ngoro Yeminana Jonah Chivasa – Ndozvinoita Nyasha Seh Calaz featuring Mambo Dhuterere – Reurura Best newcomer award: Ishan featuring Ti Gonz – Kure Mambo Dhuterere – Mweya Fusion Five Mangwiro – African Woman Joyful Praise – Ngoro Yeminana Best female artiste award: Tamy Moyo Janet Manyowa Ammara Brown Novuyo Sea Girl Best male artiste award: Ishan Freeman Mambo Dhuterere Ti Gonz Best duo/groupaward: Fusion 5 Mangwiro – African Woman Fusion 5 Mangwiro – Katarina Ngoma Ingoma – Malobolo Joyful Praise – Ngoro Yeminana Best collaboration award: Ishan featuring T Gonz – Kure Freeman featuring Alick Macheso – Ngaibake Seh Calaz featuring Mambo Dhuterere – Reurura Hilzy featuring Gary Mapanzure – TV Room Best producer award: Cymplex DJ Tamuka Rodney Beats Chiweddar Song of the year award: Ishan featuring Ti Gonz – Kure Freeman featuring Alick Macheso – Ngaibake Nutty O – Vroom Takura – Noise Album of the Year award: Freeman – Gango Joyful Praise – Season 2 King 98 – Francesca Asaph – The Peeps Rapper