The Herald Who are the richest people in the world? Most people have a pretty good idea, even if they’re not an entrepreneur, or interested in the subject at all for that matter. As you’re reading this, you probably already have names popping into your head as to who will appear on the list of the richest. These are the game-changers, and the people who have helped transform and re-shape the world. There’s been a huge fluctuation in the net worth of these billionaires in the past year. The stats given here in regards to net worth have come from Forbes directly. These are the top 10 richest people in the world in 2020: 10. Sergey Brin Net Worth: $59,6 Billion Sergey Brin and Larry Page co-founded Google back in 1998, in just a small simple garage. The duo have taken Google to the top, putting Sergey Brin a few places behind Page in this list of the richest people worldwide. As of 2020, Sergey Brin’s net worth is roughly $59,6 billion. 9. Larry Page Net Worth: $61,9 Billion Larry Page is the co-founder of Google, which was founded back in a garage in 1998. Google, no doubt, has become the most successful search engine in the world, and the company has gone on to make various acquisitions such as YouTube. Google’s success has made Larry Page one of the richest people in the world. 8. Carlos Slim Helu Net Worth: $64.4 Billion Carlos Slim Helu is a Mexican businessman and investor; owner of the conglomerate ‘Grupo Carso’. The conglomerate’s portfolio consists of brands in many different industries, such as health care, media, energy, real estate and retail. Carlos is 8th on this list of the richest people in the world, with a net worth of $64,4 billion. Despite recovering from the fall in his net worth last year, he’s still fallen yet another place on this list of the richest people in the world. 7. Larry Ellison Net Worth: $66,6 Billion Larry Ellison is the co-founder of the Oracle Corporation, and he was also the company’s CEO until September 2014. Over the years, Oracle has become an incredibly successful tech company, now being 39 years old and employing over 136,000 people. 6. Mark Zuckerberg Net Worth: $77,7 Billion We all know Mark Zuckerberg as the founder of Facebook. Facebook has become the most popular and most valuable social media company in the world. And it all started in Mark’s dorm room at Harvard University. Mark Zuckerberg has recently dropped off from the 3rd spot, after losing a lot of his net worth due to the Cambridge data scandal and various other issues causing the Facebook stock prices to fall. “When you give everyone a voice and give people power, the system usually ends up in a really good place. So, what we view our role as, is giving people that power.” — Mark Zuckerberg 5. Amancio Ortega Net Worth: $77,9 Billion Amancio Ortega is a Spanish entrepreneur and founder of the Inditex fashion group. Inditex owns Zara, and Zara is one of the most popular clothing chains worldwide. Ortega is now the 5th richest man in the world, after other players on the list have dropped down slightly. However, Ortega’s also lost over $11 billion from his net worth in recent months, and has steadily been regaining it. 4. Warren Buffett Net Worth: $89,9 Billion Warren Buffett is an American entrepreneur and investor, and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway. Buffett is the most successful investor worldwide, and millions of other traders look up to him because of his success. Warren Buffett is the 4th richest man in the world, with an incredible net worth of $89.9 billion. However, despite this fact, Buffett still lives in the home he purchased back when he didn’t even know what a billion dollars looked like. What a humble guy! “I will tell you how to become rich. Close the doors. Be fearful when others are greedy. Be greedy when others are fearful.” — Warren Buffett 3. Bill Gates Net Worth: $108,8 Billion Bill Gates is the founder of Microsoft, and was the richest man in the world for several years running. Gates founded Microsoft in 1975 with Paul Allen, and has since become the largest PC software company worldwide. Gates’ net worth has been pretty stagnant since he reached the $100 billion mark; so stagnant in fact that he’s fallen another spot, down to 3rd on this list. “Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can’t lose.” — Bill Gates 2. Bernard Arnault Net Worth: $112 Billion Bernard Arnault is the CEO of LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessey). Ultimately, the company was formed from merging the two businesses together. Louis Vuitton is the very successful luxury fashion brand, and Moet Hennessey is the merged champagne and cognac manufacturers. Bernard has been making serious movements up this list in the past year. In fact, at the beginning of 2017, he was at 14th. Now, a full 3 years later, he’s placed at 2nd on the list of the 20 richest people on earth in 2020. 1. Jeff Bezos Net Worth: $117,5 Billion Jeff Bezos is the founder of Amazon, one of the biggest and most popular companies on the web. Amazon started as a simple online bookstore in Jeff’s bedroom, and the initial sales were slow. In 2020, Jeff Bezos has become the richest man in the world, after adding a whopping $40 billion to his net worth last couple of years! Amazon is making major moves, after recently acquiring Wholefoods, launching drone shipping and a bunch of other strong ideas. Bezos recently divorced his wife MacKenzie; after which she received 4 percent of Amazon, which is worth billions, and yet it still hasn’t knocked him off the top spot. Jeff Bezos is the first man ever to reach the $100 billion mark, which is just insane! “There are two kinds of companies, those that work to try to charge more, and those that work to charge less. We will be the second.” — www.wealthgorillas.com