The Herald Business Reporter
Fast-growing and market leader in the property sector, Craft Properties (PVT) Ltd, has scooped a global and prestigious award in Malaysia after coming out tops in the business leadership category. The Kadoma-based property development entity was awarded the World Business Leader Award at a glamorous event held by the International World Confederation of Businesses at the Bizz Amea in Kuala Lumpur. The event was held on November 27, 2019. Founder and chief executive Kudakwashe Taruberekera, was rewarded for being a successful leader who works in an innovative, knowledgeable and systematic manner. He was rewarded for leading an entrepreneurial company honouring all its privileges and obligations. Mr Taruberekera said: “This is an important award to Craft Properties (PVT) Ltd Zimbabwe as it inspires other subsidiary companies of Craft Properties Holdings to continue working hard to maintain the good reputation earned over the years.” He said it was an honour that the organisation continues to be recognised at international level. “More importantly, our company employees were also individually honoured at the glamorous event,” he said. Other accolades the property developer scooped included the Excellence in Business Leadership, Excellence in Business Management and World Leader Businessperson for Mr Taruberekera. Another director at Craft Properties Holdings Zimbabwe, Yeukai Taruberekera, was conferred awards in Excellence in Business Leadership and Excellence in Quality Management. Craft Properties Holdings Zimbabwe administrative manager Mr Tinashe Muzondo, was honoured with an Excellence in Marketing Management award. “We wish our delegates to continue shining this year when they represent the organisation at various business forums,” the company said in a congratulatory message to the winners. Craft Properties Holdings delegates will on February 20 participate at the Public Hearing on “Practical Implementation of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals” at the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland. The delegation will attend the International Arch of Europe for Technology and Leadership from February 29 to March 1, 2020 in Frankfurt, Germany. The company has also been invited to attend that Worldwide Business Seminar set for Paris, France on March 28 this year. Company officials will also attend the East African Property Investment Business Conference set for Nairobi, Kenya on April 1 and 2 this year. Mr Taruberekera is expected to travel to London for the Institute of Directors — Achievements Business Forum before attending the Solar Business Expo in Canada set for June 16, 2020. Officials will travel to Dubai on October 28 and 29 for the Africa Trade and Investment Global Summit Business Conference among other prestigious events.