The Herald Sports Reporter
VISITING African Handball Confederation director of sport, Noel Assemian, has indicated there is need to renovate some areas of Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex and City Sports Centre. Zimbabwe will host the International Handball Federation Trophy Zone Six. The regional tournament is set for April 24 to 30 and the Zimbabwe Handball Federation picked Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex and City Sports Centre as match venues. Assemian arrived in the country on Monday. “Yesterday and today we visited the venues of competition and the hotels. I think that the venues are correct (for handball) but some things must be done. “If we take the first one, Aquatic Complex, we must have electricity . . . they must have water also because players will need water after the game. ““And, the course, because some parts of the court are not good, they must repair it. “I think this hall is good, we used it last time for the All-Africa Games, so it’s good for handball. “The second, the City Sports Centre, we have electricity but the preparation will be on the course, the surface. “They showed me that the surface is there but has not been put in place, so for me there is no problem if we follow those preparations. As for the hotels, all the hotels we visited are very good. “I will make recommendations. We are going to have a briefing to make recommendations for the local organising committee. ‘’For me, one most important point is that the local organising committee, everybody is interested to do it,” Assemian said. Local organising committee chairperson Edson Chirowodza, who is also the ZHF secretary-general, said they have begun working on the areas that need attention. “The surface (for City Sports Centre), we have already sourced from other associations, so what is left is to have it laid on the ground in preparation of the tournament. “Also, over and above that arrangement, we have written to IHF that they also support us with the playing surface. ‘’So, hopefully, either way we will be able to manage and host the event.’’ He said they need to address the issue of power cuts, which is one of the concerns raised by Assemian.