The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter SCHOOLS under the Warren Park-Mabelreign district are set to meet in the athletics district finals at Tynwald High School on Friday to select their team for the Harare provincial competition scheduled for March 6. The schools have already had their inter-house and zonal competitions. Friday’s finals will be held at Tynwald High School with the participants competing in 100m, 200m, 400m, 800m, 1500m, 3000m, 80m hurdles, 100m hurdles, 110m hurdles, 300m hurdles, 400m hurdles, high jump, long jump, triple jump, shot put, discus and javelin. District head-in-charge, Shepherd Muradzikwa, said they were looking at a team of 120 athletes for the provincial finals and they were confident of an exciting event on Friday. “This time, I think, we have a better crop of athletes. We are looking at, maybe, 10 athletes from our district to qualify into the provincial team,’’ he said. “I mean, the provincial team will be going for the nationals. “Basically, we are looking forward to a very strong team this year, stronger than all the other years. We are looking at selecting 120 athletes.’’ Some of the schools set to take part are Kuwadzana High I, Dzivarasekwa I High and 2, Ellis Robins, Mabelreign Girls High, Mother Touch and the hosts Tynwald High School. “These are some of the schools we are sure will be coming. But, now, we have a new school participating for the first time, Oakdale, it has already affiliated,” Muradzikwa said. Dzivarasekwa 2 High coach, Silas Muringani, said they expect to dominate the event with their girls likely to do well in sprint events. “Preparations are going on well. We started in October, with general conditioning, moving on to specific conditioning in mid-November and right now we are in the pre-competition phase targeting the NASH nationals, COSSASA and the World Junior Championships as the major competitions. “The team is in good shape and we hope to contribute the bulk of the district athletes. Our strength is in sprints, particularly with the girls. “Outstanding athletes we have include Tanaka Njiri, 15-and-Under girls, Samukeliso Ndebele, 17-and-Under girls, Shantel Jongwe 17-and-Under girls, and for the boys, we have Leeford Zuze 20-and-Under, Shelton Chiweshe 17-and-Under and Carrington Nyikadzino, 20-and-Under,” Muringani said.