The Herald BARCELONA. — Lionel Messi has criticised Barcelona sporting director Eric Abidal for saying players were not working hard under former coach Ernesto Valverde.
Valverde was sacked in January and replaced by Quique Setien. Abidal, a former teammate of Messi, made the comments in an interview with Spanish newspaper Diario Sport. But on Tuesday, Messi (32) responded: “When you talk about players, you have to give names because if not, it gives air to things which are not true.”
Valverde was sacked when Barcelona were top of the Spanish La Liga. In the newspaper interview Abidal said: “Many players weren’t satisfied or working hard and there was also an internal communication problem. “The relationship between the coach and the dressing room has always been good, but there are things as an ex-player that I could smell. I told the club what I thought and we reached a decision (on Valverde).” Six-time Ballon d’Or winner Messi responded on Instagram, writing: “Sincerely, I don’t like to do these things, but I think that people have to be responsible for their jobs and own their decisions. “The players (are responsible) for what happens on the pitch and we are the first to admit when we haven’t been good. The heads of the sports department have to take their responsibilities too, and above all, own the decisions they make.” In his interview with Diario Sport, Abidal also said he thought Messi was happy at the club and a new contract for the Argentine talisman was currently being negotiated. Meanwhile, Abidal has confirmed that Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is one of a handful of players on the Spanish football club’s transfer wish list. Aubameyang has been linked with a move away from the Emirates Stadium, with his contract set to run out next summer. Barcelona have been the most heavily linked potential buyer, with reports even going as far as saying he had given his approval to the move. And now Abidal has admitted the club’s interest in Arsenal’s Aubameyang as well as Chelsea’s Olivier Giroud and Napoli’s Fernando Llorente. “There is a list with players like Giroud, Llorente or Aubameyang, but for one thing or another, we decided not to sign. We believe it is the best for the club,” Abidal told Catalan newspaper Sport (via Sport Witness). When pushed further on possible interest in Aubameyang specifically, Abidal added: “I know him. I do not have much to do beyond sports. He has a profile that has depth. “He is important, and in his team he is decisive. It is good to bring this profile of a player who can be in the market and can help you. We’ll see what will happen.” Abidal confirmed that the club will definitely be bringing in a striker this summer.
“It is logical that in summer a ‘9’ will come. It is a necessity. We know that Suarez will come back strong, but you have to bring a top player in the summer. “We do not know if it will be young or experienced. We only look at the talent and adaptation they may have. We must think that some top players have come and have not adapted well.” — BBC Sport.