The Herald Bar Talk with Bra Gee Royal blunder Apologies for not coming out to play last Saturday. I was tied up with the matter of the king. One can safely assume that the father of Prince surely fancied himself a king until he came down from the mountain. There were several talking points about that whole scenario. Let’s start with the villain of the piece. No. I certainly do not refer to the male trying to say he did not know that the room he had come to occupy had an owner. Whether or not he convinced anyone with his story is neither here nor there. All we know is that he did not stand accused of forced entry. And the good lady in the background following proceedings between the man, while she keeps her silence like a good traditional woman? Nope. She is no more villain than you or I. Her only problem was to forget that serpents dwell in the garden. The problem is the owner of that voice off screen that keeps on calling on the queen. Right there is the villain in this drama. If she is not the one who was keeping tabs and then alerted the husband, brought him to the scene and made sure to have a ringside VIP seat, I will stop drinking today. Yes, it is such meddlesome people who destroy perfectly good marriages. People should have let the husband stay up the mountain while the wife played. Then the husband would come down in due time and his wife would receive him with joy and gladness and they would live happily ever after. Now to the husband. If you know the deposed monarch, please help me get the message home: The only reason we watched that video was because of the promising state of undress. Only to be denied a view of the family jewels except for the glaring wedding ring on the protective hand? What a waste of important drinking time! Good people, did that man really think that the world would come to an end because of his little tragicomedy? Men and women cheat every day. It did not start with this generation and it will not end with us. And we see nakedness all the time. Nothing new there either. Honestly, the wrong or right of the matter is only useful to confirm our positions. In this case, it is interesting that practically all men felt for the cuckolded husband and none of them spoke of the invisible woman. The one who slipped that wedding ring onto the fingers desperately keeping the camera at bay. So, in short, next person who wants to inflict their small little life drama on us, please at least give us something real to watch and not some PG rated damp squib. Rallying around the staple Your favourite bar fly confesses an addiction to sadza that might possibly outrank the affinity for intoxicating liquids. I love sadza. And it seems I am not the only one. I have seen Zimbabweans of all hues clutching bags of mealie-meal like lottery winnings when they are lucky enough to acquire one or two or four packets. All the other substitutes are okay for variation, but it seems most of us want and need the security of that white lump sitting heavily in our stomachs. It seems this is the one thing that unites us. Of course the relishes will separate us into we and them, but sadza is for us all. So naturally I am worried about the worsening scarcity of mealie meal. Where is the famous task force? How much have they received in allowances? What has it cost us taxpayers for them to go around and superintend the deterioration? The desperate faces to be seen in places where the scarce commodity is being doled out makes me want to cry into my drink. In addition to queuing for cash and Zupcos, now we must also queue for our inalienable right to eat sadza? Tried, tested and failed We need to stop watching people doing the same thing and excitedly expect different results. Bra Gee is tired of all the name and shame drama. It did not work the first time the stunt was pulled. It has not worked since. It will not work now simple. Because we all know how the story goes. Someone somewhere will issue a statement declaring that the accused are the most upstanding citizens of our fine nation, who have been sadly maligned. Surely, surely in this whole nation of people who love to brag about their intelligence superior to all others, we can come up with new tactics instead of continuing to farm on barren patches just because it has rained. Clearly it is okay for us to make nebulous allegations in bar talk. Knowing that we are simply venting for the sake of venting while whistling in the wind and winking in the dark. But if someone is really serious about making a change, then it is time that we see brains going into activated mode. Is it too much for all the experts who claim to have all the answers to apply all their encyclopedic knowledge to actually building solid cases against the individuals that have been judged guilty in the court of public opinion? Seems there are enough people who “know”, how exactly we are being bent over the couch and being invaded in the wrong entrance without our concern. I am not talking of the perpetrators and their accomplices. Nobody moves, nobody gets hurt. I have heard the arguments for the other side. Apparently in the view of some of our fellows, it is possible, but okay for a prostitute to be raped. In so far as there is no reason to cry when illegal forex dealers are robbed at gun point. After all, no one was shot. The miscreants are part of the rot causing suffering among us the masses, as they brandish heaps of the cash that we struggle so hard to access. They are the ones causing prices to rise as part of the rate manipulation chain. And it is their fault that there is climate change and persistent drought. Yes, that is all true. But still that does not mean that we should stand by and let criminals rule the country. Do we never learn our lessons? Do you think the gun totting gangs will only reserve their criminal intent for illegal forex dealers? Do you imagine that one day they will not turn on you for your own ill-gotten or fairly earned gains? Dream on! This is exactly the kind of mentality that brought the MaShurugwi menace to the levels of a national security threat. No criminal is better than another. So, yes, a prostitute deserves as much justice as a nun. Just because the robbed dealers have not made formal complaints, the police should not sit back and pretend that nothing happened. I am sure they can find some suitable charge to lock away the gang members. Then forfeit all that lovely loot to the state. And since no one knows exactly how much it was in the first place who is going to quibble with whatever the amount declared? Skal!