The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Handball Federation have secured friendly matches for the Under-20 and Under-18 national teams against Mozambique ahead of the IHF Trophy Zone Six in April. Zimbabwe are hosting the regional competition for the youth and junior teams and would want to utilise the home advantage for better results hence they have engaged Mozambique as part of their preparations. The matches are expected to take place on February 22 in Beira. The Zone Six event is serving as a qualifier for the World Youth and Junior Championships. Only the top team for each age-group will qualify. ZHF technical director, Farai Gwisai, said being the hosts for the Zone Six event, they expect positive results and games against Mozambique will help gauge their teams. “Our main challenge is Zambia and Mozambique. But with this preparation we are hoping our teams can qualify for the World Championships. But the favourite is the Under-20 side because they have had more practice. “We are also getting funding for this one. Previously we could not do this because of the economic hardships in Zimbabwe, the corporates have not been opening up,” said Gwisai. The Under-18 team will be under the guidance of Allan Mandeya. He will be assisted by Tatenda Kahonde while Tafadzwa Mukandabvute comes in as team manager. The Under-20 side has been meeting regularly in a move ZHF hopes will help them have a formidable team that can challenge for qualification for the 2024 Olympic Games. They have formed a partnership with Swiss coach Rolf Hausener to assist with technical expertise and he has been working with team for sometime now together with local coaches Clemence Leonard and Innocent Kanosvova. “We are looking at the Olympic qualifiers (for 2024), it’s our long-term plan. We want to see what level they are now and also the Mozambique game is preparation for the IHF Zone Six which is also a World Championships qualifier for the Youth and Junior teams “So far we are still to fully evaluate the results from the partnership and where we have moved. We have great advantage, we have sponsorship to fund camps which was a challenge because we didn’t have resources for preparations. Our coaches are also being developed” said Gwisai. Meanwhile, the African Handball Confederation director of sport Assemian Noel is expected in the country this coming Sunday for the inspection of the match venues for the regional competition — City Sports Centre and Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. ZHF secretary general Edson Chirowodza said the inspection is slated for February 10 and 11.