The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent It will be a defining moment for Seh Calaz, and the Zimdancehall fraternity at large, as the musician tries to bring back the lost spark to the genre through his Bholato Bholato Charity Concert scheduled for tonight at Harare Gardens tonight. The star-studded show will be a measure of whether the genre still has the following as at the same venue just a few years ago, fans would thronged in a show of love and solidarity for their chanters. Named after Seh Calaz’s recent offering which seems to have been eclipsed by Winky D’s “Njema” launched a day before “Bholato Bholato”, the show is a last stroke at reviving what most think is a very good album. If successful, the show is expected to resuscitate careers of some of Zimdancehall’s pioneers, again who are part of the lineup, among them Guspy Warrior, Dhadza D, Killer T, Kinnah and Hwindi President who had recently been overshadowed by a more energetic young crop of entertainers. Some of the upcoming Zimdancehall musicians who are billed to share the stage with Seh Calaz and other seasoned musicians include Da Socca, Jah Master, Massina, Hwinza, Master H, Kadijah, Celsius and Kabidha. Bholato Bholato Charity concert is definitely a good event to kick off one’s weekend. Club Eastpoint For those who have written off Zimdancehall from their playlists, Friday night also offers Sulumani Chimbetu who comes armed with new songs from his fourth-coming album, “Asante Sana”, billed for release in April. Performing at Club Eastpoint, Chimbetu will come with great confidence having impressed at a family show held at Electric Quench last weekend. PaHuku Also performing tonight is Peter Moyo who also shared the stage with Sulu at the aforementioned event last Sunday. This time Dehwa, as Moyo is affectionately known, will be at Club Vicious, popularly known as PaHuku in Hillside. Dehwa comes with a huge catalogue of songs, all packaged in a well-choreographed act. NAMA A day of reckoning in local arts has finally come as the National Arts and Merit Awards wrap up the awards season. With promises of a memorable event that simulates international ceremonies but with a brilliant touch of local arts, all eyes are on the NAMAs, come Saturday night. To be held at HICC, and for the first time in five years and open to the public, the show has a grand lineup featuring the country’s top entertainers among them Alick Macheso, Freeman, Gemma Griffiths, Ti Gonzi, Asaph, Nqobile Malinga, Felix Mutasa, Vabati VaJehovha, and Jah  Prayzah. To liven up the event organisers have drawn artists from different genres including visual artist Takunda Billiat and Jasen Mphepo Little Theatre, an organisation that specialises in theatre. The event is a red carpet affair and some of the presenters for the show include former Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Samantha Tshuma, radio and television host Gilmore Tee. Fiesta Fiesta Those who are missing NAMAs for whatever reason can have fun at Fiesta Fiesta. This month the event follows music trends, and host Amapiano DJs at ZB Sports Club. To be held on Saturday, the event kicks off in the afternoon running late into the night. Reps Theatre Comedy lovers are in for a treat at Reps Theatre this Saturday as Simuka Comedy hosts its monthly comedy night. With a great line up of Tanya, Ckanyiso dat Guy and King Kandoro, the audience is guaranteed to crack their ribs. Padziva Dzivarasekwa Extension will be a hub of celebrations this Saturady as Padziva host their first anniversary. Dubbed “One Big Party”, the event will also give a chance for those born in February to celebrate their birthdays with their peers. Electric Quench After a memorable night at the NAMAs, Alick Macheso will take his Ochestra Mberikwazvo troupe to Electric Quench (former Extra Mile Lesiure Spot) this Sunday. This will be a good event to wrap up one’s weekend.