The Herald Fradreck Gorwe Business Reporter
First Mutual Health — a subsidiary of First Mutual Holdings that offers medical aid insurance schemes  has reviewed corporate member contributions upwards effective January 1, 2020. The company offers medical insurance schemes through packages that range from general medical to more comprehensive private medical cover plans. It has seven medical cover plans namely; the Topaz, Coral, Ruby, Amber, Sapphire and Opal Plans. Contribution rates fall into two main categories covering adults and children. In a circular to members released on Monday, First Mutual Health indicated the decision emanated from the desire to preserve values of member contributions possibly on the back of inflation and subsequent rising costs of goods and services. This had made insignificant the price adjustments effected on July 1, 2019. Eroded values of contributions apparently translated to insignificant member benefits and this also is impetus behind the upward review of the latter. Said managing director Stanford Sisya in a circular to members:  “This circular serves to advise that First Mutual Health will be reviewing member contribution rates with effect from January 1, 2020. “Following the last price adjustment effected on July 1,  2019, the fund implemented an upward review of the reimbursements to service providers and increased benefit limits to members. We further reviewed awards  paid to service providers effective September 1, 2019 to mitigate against rising shortfalls. “However, in order to ensure that members continue to access health services, it has become necessary to adjust both contributions and benefits.” The new rates will reportedly “come into effect in the December 2019 billing statements” to be distributed next week. Pursuant to the upward review, adults under the Topaz Plan will now contribute $49, while the child will have to pay a monthly contribution of $21. The plan qualifies beneficiaries to seek health services from Government hospitals, general practitioners as well as mission hospitals. Selected institutions include Parirenyatwa Hospital, Harare Central Hospitals and Chitungwiza General Hospital. Premiums for the Coral Plan will also be raised to $158 for adults and $83 for children. The plan benefits members seeking services of general practitioners and private hospitals. Named institutions and services include EMRAS ambulance services, Suburban, Arcadia medical, Cranborne maternity, Queen of Peace Maternity, Makoni 24-hour, 24-hour Saint Mary’s Medical Centre and a few others. The Ruby Plan, another plan for members getting services from general practitioners and private and specialist hospitals will see adults paying $378, while children will pay $186. The Amber Plan, almost alike in services to the Ruby Plan, will see adults paying new contributions of $480 per month, while children will pay $243. Members under the Sapphire plan corporate will now pay $648 for adults and $410 for children. For Sapphire Plus, adults will have to pay $813 with children paying 459. Adult members under the Opal Plan corporate, will now have to pay an amount of $1 543, while child members will pay $948.