The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter DESPITE most provinces fielding small teams for the National Cross-country Championships over the weekend, it was an exciting meet with most of the top athletes turning up at Morris Depot in Harare on Saturday. The senior men’s and women’s 10km races were won by Bulawayo’s Isaac Mpofu and Fortunate Chidzivo from Harare respectively. In the men’s race, Mpofu was the first to cross the finish line in 30 minutes 21.88 seconds. On second position was Moses Tarakino from Harare in 30 minutes 34.27 seconds and Abel Chibanda settled for third place in 30 minutes 36.09 seconds. Chidzivo completed the women’s 10km race in 35 minutes 45.46 seconds. It was an affair for Harare athletes with Rudo Mhonderwa coming second in 36 minutes 44.62 seconds and Anna Bungu was third in 37 minutes 17.11 seconds as they dominated the senior women’s race. Harare coaches’ co-ordinator Collen Makaza was pleased with the times posted by most of the athletes as they retained the title and believes it’s going to be an interesting season for some of the athletes that took part in Saturday’s event. “Firstly, I want to thank our athletes at large for coming, without them there is no competition. They show that they are committed to the sport by performing well. And as well as team coaches also they work hard too, so I want to thank them and our board, HAB, for supporting the team. “They did good times because it was raining during the races and it was very slippery because of mud and I am happy with their times. “Cross-country running is the base and good foundation for training for both track athletes and road runners. It is a build-up to training for all runners. So it means we’re going to see good results locally and in international races,” Makaza said. Most of the senior athletes were using the meet to run qualifying times for the Africa Cross-country Championships to be held by Togo in March and with the national association indicating they expect to send at least two athletes, Mpofu and Chidzivo are likely to get the tickets to the continental meet. “The race was a bit challenging, it was raining and a tough competition indeed but I managed to cope well, finishing first. On representing the country, that’s my aim,” Mpofu said. The junior men’s title went to Golden Mhonderwa from Harare who completed the 8km race in 25 minutes 52.25 seconds to beat the duo of Liberty Shoko and Sam Mushongwe of Mashonaland Central to second and third place respectively. Shoko came in second place in 26 minutes 04.85 seconds and Mushongwe settled for third position in 27 minutes 09.17 seconds. Loveness Mutero of BMTSOA Club won the junior women’s 6km in 23 minutes 09.83 seconds.