The Herald Kiyara Matambanadzo
National export development and promotion organisation, Zimtrade, is set to host dissemination seminars that are meant to highlight opportunities present in several southern African countries where it conducted market surveys in October and November last year. The seminars, which will be held in Harare and Bulawayo next week, will be used to share findings of the surveys conducted in several African countries including northern Angola, southern Namibia and Malawi. According to a statement released by Zimtrade, the surveys revealed that local companies could leverage on the high quality of their products to penetrate the regional export market as Zimbabwean products were regarded as being of high quality with positive feedback having been received on some products including cordials and biscuits. Zimtrade said the dissemination seminars will help local exporters improve their brand visibility in the regional markets. “Unique about these dissemination seminars is that Zimtrade, will for the first time, invite buyers from Malawi, Namibia and Angola who will meet with local companies to create sustainable routes to market. “From the engagements with the buyers, who will share expectations from suppliers, projections are that it will make it easy for local companies to penetrate the target markets. “As Zimbabwe is projecting to grow its economy, anchored on a sound manufacturing and export industries, countries in the Southern African region present an easy market for those looking to improve brand visibility beyond the borders,” read the statement. The export development and promotion agency also revealed the great opportunities in the three countries. Malawi presents opportunities for Zimbabwean products in fast-moving consumer goods (FMCGs), agriculture, home and office furniture and construction sectors. Namibia presents vast opportunities for  local companies to supply an array of products and services as it has huge opportunities in FMCG, horticulture, hardware, building and construction material supplies, which is currently dominated by South Africa. Angola is seeing some positive developments in terms of infrastructure development. Road construction and property development is taking centre stage, thus creating opportunities for supply of construction products as well as services such as engineering. Meanwhile, Zimtrade’s services to the Zimbabwean business community is to provide current and reliable market intelligence, where the target is ensuring that exporters have access to critical information that will make it easy to penetrate regional and international markets.