The Herald    Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS have been presented with an opportunity to fine-tune their squad outside the borders after receiving an invi­tation from Mozambican football giants Ferroviario de Beira for an international friendly match. The Mozambican outfit yesterday reached out to the Glamour Boys for a sparring match on March 1. The Glamour Boys, who have had a full makeover of their squad, are first set to play Yadah Stars in friendly matches at the Yadah Complex in Waterfalls today. It will be a homecoming show for highly-rated defender Byron Madzokere, who left Yadah Stars to join the Glamour Boys, at the end of last season. Yadah Stars have also changed their squad, letting go a number of veterans, as they shift their focus towards youth development. Ferroviario de Beira are the 2016 Mocambola champions and are preparing for their upcoming season, which begins in April. They have offered to cater for food and accommodation for DeMbare’s entou­rage while the Glamour Boys organise their transport and travel arrangements. “Clube Ferroviario da Beira would like to invite you to play a friendly international match in Beira, Mozambique, on Sunday the 1st of March 2020. “The match will be played at our venue ‘CALDEIRAO DO CHIVEVE’ at exactly 1500hrs… “We will provide accommodation and meals for 30 persons for three days (and nights). Your club will take care of all the traveling arrangements,” reads part of the invitation. Ferroviario, who lifted their only Mozambican league championship four years ago, are looking to be competitive again this year after they finished fourth last season. They were 21 points behind champions Costa do Sol. They are home to former Dynamos goalkeeper Willard Manyatera. DeMbare are also keen on reclaiming their place among the top teams in the Castle Lager Premiership and have gone out of their way to sign 14 new players during the off-season break. The team started training last month and have played friendly games against lower division sides. Club chief executive, Jonathan Mashin­gaidze, yesterday said they were still delib­erating on the Mozambique trip. “I can confirm we have a proposal along those lines but it’s still early to talk about it right now,’’ he said. “A team from Mozambique wants to play Dynamos, it’s a good opportunity for preparation but first we have to see the terms and conditions of the invitation. “So, by Monday, I think we should have a clear picture of what is happening next.’’ The Herald on Saturday yesterday caught up with football agent George Deda, who is acting as the go-between, and he confirmed the date. “I will not pre-empt the details but I feel this is good for them. Without tak­ing anything away from the other teams like FC Platinum, Chicken Inn and Ngezi Platinum, who have brought high level competition to the PSL, I also think a bet­ter prepared Dynamos, CAPS United and Highlanders bring competition, glamour and excitement to the league. “As agents, we have to play a part in making sure that our football develops. “We are also talking to other clubs in the region like Simba and Azam of Tanzania to make sure that any team that is interested in pre-season international friendlies get the best opponents,” said Deda. As part of the efforts to drill their new-look team, DeMbare have also outlined plans for a pre-season training camp in South Africa. The club finished a disap­pointing ninth last season and they look determined to return to the top again. The Glamour Boys have had a busy pre-season and have this week posted coach Tonderai Ndiraya for an attachment stint with Belgian pro-league side, KV Mechelen until March 2. DeMbare have brought back defender Partson Jaure from Manica Diamonds, signed Madzokere from Yadah Stars as well as Young Warriors midfielder Juan Mutudza on a one-year loan deal from Herentals.Ghanaian Steven Appiah, Tinotenda Chiunye, Nkosi Mhlanga, Tanaka Chidhobha, Lennox Mutsetse, David Tem­wanjira and Barnabas Mushunje are some of those who will be donning the famous blue-and-white shirt this coming season. However, Dynamos have lost chief striker Evans Katema to Zambian giants Zanaco and are in search of a reliable goalscorer. They have since roped in the 2019 Central Region Division One top goal scorer Takunda Mawarire who was with ZPC Munyati. 