The Herald Sports Reporter THE Rainbow Amateur Netball League have been forced to cancel some of their matches which had been lined up for today following the last-minute withdrawal of Lusumbami and PPU because of sponsorship challenges. The league had intended to run with 20 clubs, this season, from last year’s 18. But they now have to make a decision to either replace the two clubs, or continue with the remaining 18, after the two opted out due to sponsorship blues. RANL secretary-general, Moses Gukurume, confirmed the withdrawal of the two clubs. “Yes, we received the last-minute withdrawal from the league from Lusumbami Queens and PPU because of sponsorship challenges,’’ said Gukurume. “There is minimal impact considering that last season we had 18 teams. We are weighing our options. “The first option is to invite Golden Valley back into the league while Lusumbami have advertised their franchise. “The second option is to invite the teams that finished second in all our regions to fight in a play-off, the winner gets the ticket to replace PPU. “The third option is to leave it as 18 teams.’’ Lusumbami were expected to take on ZRP Mambas in Harare while PPU were scheduled to host Glow Petroleum. “We have communicated to the clubs concerned though,” Gukurume said. Champions Correctional Queens have a relatively easy opening encounter as they take on Flow Angles this morning in Glen View. The Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services outfit have made it clear they would want to make it three wins in a row, having won the championship for the past two seasons. After being beaten into second place at the end of the 2019 programme, ZDF coach Joel Sibanda says they wanted an improved campaign this year. They are up against newly-promoted Greenfuels Angels in Chisumbanje. “We want to do better this season. We are starting away from home and we are taking on a new team, I have not seen their players so I cannot say much. “But, of course, we are expecting a win and we are not underrating them. “As ZDF, we are a good side, so we are not afraid, but it’s just that we don’t know them and their type of play,” said Sibanda. Black Rhinos got their campaign underway with a 52-25 win over Support Unit yesterday. Meanwhile, the match between Falcon Airforce Queens and Mutare City has been postponed. Fixtures Today: Platinum Queens v Goldreef (Mandava grounds, 2pm), Greenfuels Angels v ZDF Queens (Chisumbanje, 2pm), Green Buffaloes v Tenax Queens (Chikurubi, 11am), Khami Queens v Ngezi Platinum (Khami, 2pm), Flow Angels v Correctional Queens (Glen View 1 Hall, 11am), Beta Queens v Riozim (Barclays Sports Club, 2pm).