The Herald Eddie Chikamhi in TUNIS, Tunisia IF FC Platinum were a child, the parents should now be having sleepless nights because of the child’s stunted growth. Zimbabwe’s representatives in the CAF Champions League football wrapped up another disappointing campaign in the African Safari with a 0-2 defeat away to Tunisian giants Etoile du Sahel on Saturday night via goals from Karim Aribi and Melek Beaoui. This is the third time on the bounce that they have competed the group stage of the competition and finished the campaign without a win. The results have brought into context their ability to compete at the highest level of continental club football despite the availability of resources and their dominance at home where they have won three league titles on the trot. FC Platinum have apparently been found wanting and the quality of their players questioned. On Saturday night, Hendrik de Jongh’s side failed to raise their game and match their opponents. The Zimbabwean champions have done well by signing over half a dozen players recently but the players lack experience at the level. Pure Platinum need some quality, experienced hands to drive their campaign if they are to realise a change of fortunes. The Zvishavane based side should consider scouting in the foreign lands since the local Castle Lager Premiership where they recruit the majority of their personnel is losing its best talents to the region. After Saturday night’s game in which their resistance was broken down in a feisty second half play by the hosts, coach Hendrik de Jongh was also pragmatic about the need to sign a few more players with the requisite experience at the level ahead of the new campaign starting in August. De Jongh said his side was not in the best condition to compete against the elite from the continent. Just like in most of the games they have played in Group B which also had Al Ahly of Egypt and Al Hilal of Sudan, the platinum miners experienced some mistakes which made the big difference. “What I think is not right, from my experience as an international football coach, is that the moment you make a mistake you are bound to be punished. You have seen it in this game and in other games as well. “The other point is, players at this level are in top shape and top quality. That’s what I want but not every player from our side is in top shape and top quality. We have time for that because the league starts on March 14 before the Super Cup. “Yes, you learn. Let’s not discuss the quality difference, it’s not an excuse. But they (Etoile) have fairly high stature, we have small stature, they have more experience some players I think 29 or 30 years of age and experienced with Champions League but have played Champions League only for the second time for a lot of our players. “But we must take our lessons from our performance. We have signed some new players with good qualities and hopefully they will make progress. We must not forget the group we were in, we had three teams from the top 10 league in Africa,” said De Jongh. FC Platinum finished their campaign on the bottom of the table with a single point. Tunisians Etoile du Sahel and eight-time champions Al Ahly of Egypt progressed to the last eight from the group. Etoile finished top with 12 points while Al Ahly, who drew 1-1 away to Hilal had 11 with the Sudanese side missing out on 10 points. De Jongh said FC Platinum are looking to come back stronger in August. “We need good preparation. Preparations for the next tournament should start now. We need to start now and make sure that the players are in good condition and are in good shape. We signed different players and I think we need two or three more with quality that we don’t have now in our selection. “International football is simple. A mistake made is a goal but everything starts with a good shape and a good condition. Every player must be in a good condition, that is the first lesson. “But at this moment not every player is in a good shape. We have players that are maybe two, three or five kilos heavier. That is not possible with international football. “Players need to have very good discipline in ball possession, in their private life, a good focus on their job, good sleep and good food are some of the things that make a big difference in top football,” said De Jongh.