The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
ZIFA are likely to find themselves offside, with the association in contravention of FIFA Club licensing, following the promotion into the domestic Premiership of Tenax and Whawha. The two football clubs are run by the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services. Army team, Cranborne Bullets, will also join their sister side Black Rhinos in the top-flight league. In Division One, there is Talen Vision in the ZIFA Southern Region Division One and Talen Vision Academy in the Central Region Division One. The two Division One teams are owned by businessman and miner Khumbulani Nkomo. According to the legal criteria of club licensing, on the ownership and control of clubs, an applicant must submit a legally valid declaration outlining the ownership structure and control mechanism of the clubs. They must also confirm that no natural, or legal person involved in the management, administration and/or sporting performance of the club, either directly or holds or deals in the securities or shares of any other club participating in the same competition. That person, or entity, shouldn’t hold a majority of the shareholders’ voting rights of any other club participating in the same competition. Or have the right to appoint, or remove a majority of the members of the administrative, management or supervisory body of any other club participating in the same competition. The person, or entity, cannot be a shareholder and, alone, control the majority of the shareholders’ voting rights of any other club participating in the same competition pursuant to an agreement entered into with other stakeholders of the club in question. ZIFA will be presented with a classic case because it’s common cause that the two promoted teams from the Central and Eastern Region are owned by the ZPCS while Cranborne Bullets are an army side. While the two Talen Vision clubs are competing in different leagues, there is no guarantee they will not clash, especially if a major cup competition is introduced, involving all ZIFA-affiliated teams. The sporting integrity aspect is also brought onto the fore, especially when it comes to the issue of relegation and promotion matrix. “What happens if say Tenax need a point to survive relegation, or to win the title, and their last match is against Whawha? “Are we not compromising our standards as a league? ZIFA must not push for club licensing where it suits them, and turn a blind eye on the other aspects, the world will laugh at us,” said a PSL governor who asked for anonymity. According to FIFA, the overall objectives of the club licensing system, in accordance with the decision taken by the FIFA Congress in Munich, Germany, in 2006 are; Contacted for comment, ZIFA spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela, said they understood the concerns. “We understand the concerns  but the clubs are autonomous of each other,” said Gwesela, who is a member of the First Instance Board.