The Herald Albert Marufu in LONDON, England
TEAM Zimbabwe UK, which has been instrumental in advocating for closer cooperation between ZIFA and the Diaspora, will today hold victory celebrations to mark 10 years of the organisation’s existence. The event will take place at the Waltham Abbey Marriot Hotel in London. Marshall Gore, who is the chief executive of Team Zimbabwe UK, yesterday said the football community in the Diaspora will reflect on the journey travelled. “This event has been organised for the specific purpose of recognising, championing and appreciating all of our collective efforts, and achievements, by the organisation in the past decade,” said Gore. “As a community organisation, one of our main objectives, besides just promoting sport development, is to ensure that we support many young Zimbabweans to achieve their desired purpose in life without prejudice. ‘’This, we believe, we have achieved thus far.” Gore singled out the efforts made to have the likes of Tendayi Darikwa, Alec Mudimu and Macauley Bonne avail themselves for Zimbabwe senior national team business. He also said it was a special moment to honour the Zimbabwe Diaspora Development National Football teams’ successes in the last five years. They won the 2019 African Nations Cup UK (Senior Cup), 2019 Inner City World Cup (Vets Cup), 2018 Inner City World Cup (Vets Cup), 2017 African Nations Cup UK (Under 17 Tournament) and 2016 African National Cup UK (Under 17 Tournament). “In celebration, we draw inspiration from our solid team work, derived from our ability to work together towards a shared common vision and purpose. “And our ability to direct individual accomplishments towards organizational objectives. ‘’This is the spirit and strategy that has allowed us as common people to attain uncommon results thousands of miles away from home. “We hope that by sharing our success story we will be able to inspire and bring together more Zimbabweans in the Diaspora and at home to walk together and work together,” said Gore.