The Herald Business Reporter
HOUSING and property development firm, Enhanced Mortgaging and Housing Africa (EMHA), is in the process of broadening its business scope by diversifying operations. EMHA is a low cost housing firm. Working with various urban councils, the firm’s efforts have gone a long way in aiding Government to reduce a housing backlog that currently stands at around 1,25 million units. However, the success of the firm’s multi-million dollar operations in Zimbabwe and some parts of Africa, have in turn created new and diversified business opportunities for the organisation. This, according to EMHA managing director Boyana Ndou, has been due to strategic partnerships that they have entered over the years. EMHA whose operations continue to grow in leaps and bounds, has now ventured into the ever growing telecommunications business by opening wholesale and retail mobile telephone shops in the capital. Also they have started manufacturing low cost uniforms for schools and working classes. Their uniform division, Enhanced Uniform Solutions (EUS), was launched last year in December and plans are already afoot for the official launch of Enhanced Mobile Systems (EMS). EMS is a joint venture with their Chinese partners. The company manufactures affordable and modern mobile handsets. “We are out to prove a point. EMHA is  a home grown company that has proved beyond doubt that as Zimbabweans, we are able to come up with business ideas that will create lasting impressions across the continent. “The company is biased towards construction but through our tactical partnerships with foreign firms, we have managed to increase our business scope, creating new ventures in fields like telecoms and uniform manufacturing. Our thrust remains that of serving the middle and low income earners,” revealed Mr Ndou. EMHA — the main company and construction division — has operations far and wide in countries like Ghana, Sierra Leone, Zambia and Zanzibar. The company is also moving into Kenya, Botswana and Burundi. The construction firm also has offices and operations in South Africa. Back home, they have construction work in areas like Chitungwiza, Mabvuku, Glen Norah, Highfield, Kuwadzana, Ruwa, Headlands, Rusape, Mutare, Marondera, Mutoko, Guruve, Plumtree, Victoria Falls and Hwange. Boom in business has seen them spread their offices to places like Gweru, Bulawayo, Rusape and Mutoko. Mr Ndou said the efficiency and success of their business model has attracted interests from foreign companies that wish to implement similar systems in their homelands. EMHA is a wholly owned Zimbabwean firm that, however, has benefitted from Government’s business friendly initiatives like the Look East policy. “The construction company was home grown and has local roots. However, we have received support from Hong Kong and other players in the Middle East. Initially the focus was on construction. But through engagement with numerous investors, we have managed to broaden our scope. “We are receiving technical and financial support from our investors, which has made it simple for us to try our hand in fresh ventures. It is our wish to contribute to the overall economic development plan in every possible way we can,” adds Mr Ndou. Late last year, EMHA signed a housing deal with a Sierra Leone Housing Corporation (SALHOC) in Harare. The event was graced by Sierra Leone’s Deputy Minister for Lands, Housing and the Environment Mr Rex Bhonapha. Construction work has already began in the West African nation. Also on the list of African countries that EMHA has active operations is Zanzibar, Tanzania and Ghana. Among people that have benefited from their home equity loan system are, civil servants, street vendors, farm workers, public transport and truck drivers. Many local companies are going regional and global as part of a broad strategy to harness foreign currency to sponsor local operations.