The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THINGS simply need to change for the better tomorrow when the Zimbabwe cricket team battles to end a seven-year jinx against old foes Bangladesh in the three-match One Day Internationals in Sylhet. The Chevrons have not won against their opponents since May 2013 when they posted a 2-1 series win at the Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo. The odds are heavily staked against them as they have lost 13 games in succession since then. Ironically, all the matches were played on Bangladeshi soil. Zimbabwe have been poor travellers to the subcontinent, particularly in Bangladesh, where they suffered successive ODI whitewashes on their last three tours. They were thrashed 0-5 in 2014 and the following year they suffered a 3-0 series defeat. Their fortunes remained suppressed on their last visit in 2018 as they succumbed to another 0-3 loss. The teams had also met in Dhaka during a Tri-nations series, which also featured Sri Lanka at the beginning of 2018, and the Chevrons were twice floored by the Tigers in the round-robin clashes. Records show that Bangladesh have won 13 straight games against the Chevrons in the last seven years. In fact, a total of 72 ODI matches have been played between Zimbabwe and Bangladesh in the last two decades and the Tigers have established their dominance by winning 44 ODIs against Zimbabwe’s 22. The upcoming series means a lot for the Zimbabwean, who are now angling at rebuilding a squad for the 2023 World Cup, under Indian coach Lalchand Rajput. The former India opener has a squad that blends youth and experience with Chamu Chibhabha expected to lead the team as interim limited-overs skipper. However, Chibhabha’s choice to captain the ship has been met with a lot of criticism as the 33-year-old last played international cricket two years ago when Zimbabwe hosted Pakistan in Bulawayo. The Mashonaland Eagles batsman would need to put that concern, and his inconsistent statistics, behind him to focus on his new responsibilities. The Chevrons dominated the early years of the rivalry as the Tigers were still trying to position themselves among the big boys of international cricket. Somehow, the tables turned in the mid-2000s when Zimbabwe went through a period of turmoil that left the game severely weakened. Zimbabwe made five changes to the squad that played Tests by bringing in uncapped teenager Wesley Madhevere, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Richmond Mutumbami, veteran all-rounder Sean Williams and captain, Chibhabha. They replaced Prince Masvaure, Kevin Kasuza, Regis Chakabva, Victor Nyauchi and Brian Mudzinganyama who returned home after the Test match. The squad has the experienced trio of Sikandar Raza, Williams and former captain Brendan Taylor who were all part of the team that last posted a win over Bangladesh seven years ago. Zimbabwe and Bangladesh will play the second match on Tuesday and then wind off the series on Friday. This will be followed by two T20I matches on March 9 and 11 in Dhaka. Zimbabwe ODI/T20I squad: Chamu Chibhabha (captain), Sikandar Raza, Craig Ervine, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Wesley Madhevere, Timycen Maruma, Christopher Mpofu, Carl Mumba, Tinotenda Mutombodzi, Richmond Mutumbami (wicketkeeper), Ainsley Ndlovu, Brendan Taylor, Donald    Tiripano, Charlton Tshuma, Sean Williams