The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AS local karatekas brace for the Samson Muripo Challenge Cup to be staged at Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex this coming Friday, the veteran fighter says he is humbled by the gesture. The tournament to honour and celebrate Muripo’s achievements is being organised by Zimbabwe So-kyokushin Karate-Do Organisation and is going to feature fighters from various styles. “I feel so humbled, realising that Zimbabwe So-Kyokushin Karate-Do Organisation decided to host a karate tournament in my honour. “I dedicated my life to kyokushin karate development in the community of my proximity hence this will go a long way in magnifying my aspirations for something I do by instinct as well as ready to die for. Aspirations give consistent order to life. “I always had a thought of this happening after this corruptible, this mortal has put on immortality. I have always had a positive mentality but this honour is much higher than I thought. My prayer is that it must not end with me. But we must ensure that all respectable and deserving karatekas receive due recognition and reward,” said Muripo. Apart from competition, Muripo, who is Zimbabwe So-Kyokushin Karate-Do Organisation branch chief and development officer for Africa, spends most of his time in training and assisting upcoming fighters. His desire is to see the continuation of growth and success coming from the sport he loves and the Challenge Cup is an opportunity to watch the next generation in action. “Given another day on earth, surely I will be in attendance, watching the proceedings of my number one sport, kyokushin karate. “What is more special is that this tournament is happening during my lifetime. At the tournament I will be watching young karatekas, both male and female, going through their paces. “There is more satisfaction in seeing young men and women take up kyokushin karate, battling to take the mantle forward. “Mentoring young people into world champions has always been a cause for concern, down in my predestined path. So I’’ll be enjoying myself at this tournament watching the structures we have put in place for so many years in operation. “What is also gratifying is that this tournament is being organised by local karatekas, and to some extent using their own resources. The desire and zeal is humbling,” noted Muripo. The top karateka got a boost from TelOne who came on board with financial assistance for his build-up for the second So-kyokushin World Karate Championship in Japan. “I am very humbled by the support I got from TelOne. TelOne has gifted me with a cool broadband package of 40GB for 12 months to stay connected and some financial assistance as I prepare for the second So-Kyokushin World Karate Championship to be held in Shizuoka City, Japan on the 18th and 19th of April, 2020. “However, we still need more corporates to help us cover other expenses relating to the trip which includes air tickets, accommodation and food,” said Muripo. Zimbabwe So-kyokushin Karate-Do Organisation technical director Kumbirai Musinami has predicted an exciting event when they host the Challenge Cup since they are using the competition to assess their readiness for regional and international events lined-up for 2020.