The Herald Eddie Chikamhi in TUNIS, Tunisia
STANLEY NGALA is a man on a mission. His ambition is to make it at home and then establish himself among the best on the continent. The 24-year old is expected to lead the FC Platinum attack when they face hosts Etoile du Sahel at the 65 000-seater Stade Olympipue de Rades here tonight. The Zimbabweans need to salvage what is left of their pride after falling out of the race for a quarter-final berth winless in Group B that also features Sudanese giants Al Hilal and record winners Al Ahly of Egypt. “I think we have had a good preparation ahead of this game with the hope that we will collect our first set of maximum points,’’ he said. “It’s been disappointing, but we have not given up hope yet. “I know it will be a difficult game, but collecting maximum points will be a huge morale-booster for us. “Remember, we have a new season coming up back home and another Champions League campaign later in the year. This is my first year of playing Champions League (football) and, hopefully it, will not be the last. “I think I have gained so much experience in the games that I have played. “I have learnt a lot, especially playing teams from North Africa whose brand is not entirely similar to ours. “So if I can use that experience in the league back home and then when we begin our next campaign in Africa, I think I will be on a better level.’’ FC Platinum are bottom of the group with a single point, while their opponents have a realistic chance of grabbing one of the two available tickets to the last eight after raking up eight points. Etoile are second in the group with nine points, but only a superior goal difference separate them with third placed Hilal. Ngala made his debut in the Champions League with FC Platinum earlier this month and scored in his first match which ended 1-1 against Hilal. “I just want to urge my teammates to stay focused, to be united and to fight for one thing, which is winning games. “Divided we fall, united we stand. We need that spirit to continue,” said Ngala.