The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cricket have demonstrated they are not looking back in their rebuilding exercise after they handed teenage sensation Wesley Madhevere his maiden call-up into the Chevrons squad for the One Day International and T20I series against Bangladesh. The 19-year-old all-rounder found his place in the 15-member squad announced by Zimbabwe Cricket yesterday. He is one of the five changes to the side that fell to an innings defeat to the Tigers in a one-off Test this week. Madhevere, who recently made his List A and first-class debut in the domestic league, has featured in the last three ICC Under-19 World Cups for Zimbabwe. Another promising young player, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, was also included in the squad along with Richmond Mutumbami, veteran all-rounder Sean Williams and new limited overs captain Chamu Chibhabha. They replaced Prince Masvaure, Kevin Kasuza, Regis Chakabva, Victor Nyauchi and Brian Mudzinganyama who returned home after the Test match. The three ODIs are pencilled for March 1, 3 and 6 in Syhlet. Zimbabwe will conclude the tour by playing two T20Is against Bangladesh on March 9 and 11 in Dhaka. Zimbabwe also had a refreshing squad with five uncapped players for their last Test series against Pakistan. Eventually, batsmen Kevin Kasuza and Brian Mudzinganyama, Tuskers spinner Ainsley Ndlovu, Victor Nyauchi of Mountaineers and Rangers paceman Charlton Tshuma were given a run. Coach Lalchand Rajput has indicated he wants to rebuild the Zimbabwe squad for the 2023 World Cup by gradually introducing talented young players into the mix. “We are now shifting our focus to rebuilding a new team and to do that we must gradually blood in younger players and create a new culture that encourages unity, hard work, professionalism and excellence,” Rajput said. “We will not make wholesale changes, as we definitely still need some of the experienced players to help the new generation find their feet in international cricket. “It is important that we still field a competitive side — that is why we have a good mix of youth and experience in the team that has been selected for the Bangladesh tour.” Zimbabwe ODI/T20I squad: Chamu Chibhabha (captain), Sikandar Raza Butt, Craig Ervine, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Wesley Madhevere, Timycen Maruma, Christopher Mpofu, Carl Mumba, Tinotenda Mutombodzi, Richmond Mutumbami (wicketkeeper), Ainsley Ndlovu, Brendan Taylor, Donald Tiripano, Charlton Tshuma, Sean Williams 