The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
CAPS United coach, Darlington Dodo, has hinted his team need might not need more additions as he is happy with the squad at his disposal. The Green Machine have signed over 21 players this transfer period as they bid to once again fight for the league title this season. Reports had indicated that Makepekepe were targeting to bring over 20 more new recruits but, it appears, former Chapungu winger, Ian Nyoni, could be the last player to be brought on board. He arrived last week. Over 35 players took part in yesterday’s practice matches against Yadah Stars at the Yadah Complex in Waterfalls in what was Dodo’s first assessment of his players in game situations. “I cannot say a lot at the moment as we are still assessing the players,’’ said Dodo. ‘‘We are impressed by the arsenal we have at the club but, as of now, I cannot say a lot. ‘‘We have just played our first training game so it is work in progress. “I have a healthy situation at the club. If you have quite a number of good players, who can make the first 11, and the players are more than 30, then you know you are privileged. ‘‘We have a lot of work ahead to try and have a good team. Otherwise, I am happy, very happy with what we have at the club. “This is a season you will see real competition from a lot of clubs, given the way they have gone about recruiting good players. We also think we will have a say in that competition.” Makepekepe will this Saturday play another practice match against ZIFA Northern Region Division One outfit, Simba Bhora, in Bindura as the assessment continues. “We are continuing with our assessments and evaluations. We have been training as a club and we are now venturing into game situations. We need to create formidable combinations and see how we can build our team. I am happy with the depth which we have at the club.” Meanwhile, midfielder Blessing Sarupinda is set to leave for Portugal in the coming days after he got his visa early this week.