The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO HAVING failed to pay the Premier Soccer League affiliation fee Whawha, the 2019 ZIFA Central Region Division One champions, will have their Premiership status decided by the league’s board of governors. The league’s leaders will meet next month. The Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services side were the only club which failed to meet the February 21 deadline for clubs to pay their 2020 affiliation fees of $208 000. There are indications the ZPCS were not willing to fund two teams in the same league after two of their clubs were promoted into the top-flight league. The other side is Tenax from Mutare who have paid their affiliation fees. ‘’As far as I am concerned Whawha are still  to pay their affiliation fees after missing the February 21 deadline and now their fate will be decided by the board of governors during the annual general meeting on March 6,” PSL spokesperson, Kudzai Bare, said yesterday. Whawha chairman, Watson Matara, however, remained adamant yesterday they will be able to raise the funds for affiliation. “We have been in talks with two organisations from Gweru, one which is a financial institution, who both promised to come to our aid and pay our affiliation fees,’’ he said. ‘’I am sure by the end of the day today (yesterday) or tomorrow (today), we will have a clear picture on that.’’ There have been unconfirmed reports that the Gweru outfit were already in talks with TelOne, who were relegated from the elite league last season, for a possible franchise swap. Matara, however, denied engaging in such talks. “The two clubs might deny that they are in talks but with the way TelOne are holding their pre-season training, one can tell that they are not preparing for life in Division One,’’ sources said. ‘’This week, they are going on an out-of-town camp in Kariba.’’ Another source said the team which finished second in the league could take Whawha’s place in the PSL in the event they fail to affiliate. “Look, this matter is clear, Whawha are not a member of PSL because they haven’t paid their affiliation fees and that means, as the Central Region, in the event that our champions fail to progress to the PSL, we have to provide the league with the next club (which finished second in the championship race).