The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S 18-and-Under assistant coach, Tatenda Kahonde, says the friendly matches against Mozambique sides will go a long way in complementing their efforts to build a formidable team. They are preparing for the IHF Trophy Zone Six handball tournament. The 18-and-Under and 20-and-Under teams left for Mozambique yesterday for friendly matches slated for today in Beira. The teams are expected to play, at least, three matches each with some select sides and clubs. Kahonde said they were still building the team and assessing the players in a competition set-up was key to addressing some of the challenges. “This is totally a new group altogether so we are still roping in new players to get a great depth of talent, right now I won’t say we are yet there,’’ he said. ‘‘We are still building a team and this will be our first competitive game.’’ “After the games we are going to camp again in March, so that we improve on those areas we would have noticed and team building.’’ ‘‘We are not yet there but we will get there.” Team captain, Masimba Chibonda, said their target was the regional tournament. “Let me say, actually, I am happy that we are playing with one of the best teams in Africa in preparation of our Zone Six and I a pretty sure we are going to win,’’ he said. ‘‘We will also get to see our mistakes and also see if we need to fix our combi­nations in preparation of Zone Six.” This is the first time the Zimbabwe Handball Federation have engaged their counterparts from the region for friendly matches. They hope the move will benefit their teams in the long run. The 20-and-Under side’s captain, Charles Munyanyi, said they have been working as a team for some time now and they are raring to go. “We have been training so much since last year doing periodic camps, so we are ready to play now.’’ ‘‘We are hoping that our drills, which we have been doing, will come together well in Mozambique.’’ “We want to see if we can match up with our counterparts and see our weaknesses and strengths. ‘‘The aim is to work towards winning the Zone Six,” said Munyanyi. ZHF vice president, Alfos Mhondiwa, said they want to create a broad base for selection, which will allow the coaches to have more options when picking their teams. Mhondiwa said Mozambique were more experienced. Teams 18-and-Under Mengezi Brandon Phuti, Bafana Ayanda Ncube, Vision Moyo, Leo Maziveyi, Vaughan Tadiwa Matibiri, Last Rutsito, Nathan Zimucha, Munashe Collin Gan­didzwana, Takudzwa Annointed Muno­tumani, Ngoni Nyaude, Takudzwa Shelton Basopo, Lesley Tatenda Chembe, Tariro Dengu, Masimba Chibonda, Happymore Muzvondiwa, Darren Nyakudya, Cannon Gundani, Kudakwashe Soka. 20-and-Under Brighton Ndimande, Blessed Courage Mukodza, Patrick Donald Dembo, Anesu Adrian Gadzikwa, Charles Tawanda Mun­yanyi, Tafadzwa Samson Dengu, Khoitise Wayne Dube, Vivid Raza, Tanatswa Dzo­tizeyi, Ronald Nala, Peter Chabarwa, Nya­sha Ashley Ngarira, Hlanganiso Bhejah, Delight Bobo, Vinecent Mufuka, Willard Mkweche, Blessing Chilenga, Gashirai Kamucha, Taurai Nyika.