The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE Harare City Council say they will address flaws in their sporting infrastructure, with renovations at Gwanzura the first to get underway. The move will also involve the upgrading of Rufaro, including repairing of the run-down lighting system, which will enable the venue to host evening matches before the start of the 2020 Premiership season. The city council officials will tomorrow tour both Gwanzura and Rufaro to have a first-hand appreciation of what is taking place at the council’s two major football stadiums. Gwanzura has virtually turned into a white elephant since 2015, with most Premiership action in the capital being confined to Rufaro and the National Sports Stadium over the years. The Highfield facility will not be able to host any matches until end of July when, according to the authorities, work at Gwanzura is expected to have been completed. Yesterday, the city authorities sent a team of workers to Gwanzura to remove weeds after an outcry provoked by an H-Metro story which revealed how the neglected stadium had been converted into a theatre for some social ills. The city council say the security wall at the stadium will be demolished and replaced. Council spokesperson Michael Chideme said designs for the drainage system have already been done by the council, while the turf has been procured. “Gwanzura might not be ready for any games within the next few months, but renovation works have already begun,’’ he said. “The borehole has already been drilled. This Wednesday (tomorrow), the Harare City Council management will tour the stadium with the view to assess the work to be done. “We have just realised that sport plays a pivotal role in promoting destination Harare. “Teams from across the country come to Harare to play football and it’s part of our branding as a city. We are very much geared to start work on Gwanzura. “The playing turf has already been procured, but at the moment, work should begin on the laying of a modern drainage system which has already been designed by the Harare City Council Water Department. “The Harare City management will meet and chart a way forward on how works will progress.” Harare City Director of Housing Addison Nhekairo said a budget has already been set aside for the purpose of sprucing up Gwanzura. “The budget set aside for the renovations of the stadium remains provisional pending the ministry’s approval, but the finance department has indicated that it will be approved soon. “It is only when the budget is approved that I will be at liberty to give the figures.” Rufaro, too, needs a facelift. One of its parking areas has since been turned into vegetable and fruit vending site by farmers and middlemen. CAF have condemned all stadiums in the country with the exception of Barbourfields, which have been provisionally cleared to host international fixtures. “One of the most pressing issues at Rufaro is the perimeter wall for the car park,’’ said Nhekairo. “You will find out that because of the many openings which are there, that car park is now being used for other things than its intended use. We have already procured the necessary resources, including bricks. “We have also partnered with some corporates for that work. “The levelling of the playing surface is also work in progress. We intend to sink another borehole, having already sunk one last year. “We will also put in place all subsidiary structures to make sure the ground comes to the required standard. “We are working flat out as a council and we will make sure that our lighting system is up to the required standards so that matches can even be played in the evening.” Renovations at the National Sports Stadium are yet to start.