The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
CAPS United have pulled all strings to address their defensive frailties which cost them the league title last season. Makepekepe were close to winning the title last term but started losing the plot after defensive pillar Method Mwanjali got injured. The pairing of either Spencer Masunda and Justice Jangano, or the latter with Godwin Goriati, always flattered to deceive with the left back position another source of worry for coach Darlington Dodo. Both Carlos Rusere and Valentine Ndaba, who rotated the role, proved to be lightweight and most of the 42 goals conceded by Makepekepe last season came via that flank. And Dodo has since released the pair, along with a number of players, with defenders such as Hardlife Zvirekwi, Masunda, Dominic Mukandi topping the list. Out of the 28 players training with CAPS United, 18 are new, with half of them being either defenders or goalkeepers, reaffirming coach Darlington Dodo’s commitment to reinforce his defence. Only Tonderai Mateyaunga was retained in the goalkeeping department with Prosper Chigumba and Chris Mverechena leaving the ship. Mateyaunga has been joined by Wallace Magalane and Tatenda Munditi from FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum. Valentine Musarurwa and Justice Jangano are the only survivors from the defenders who did duty for the Green Machine last year. Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye, Carlos Mavhurume, Brendon Mpofu and Munyaradzi Kunyarimwe are the other new recruits who will be fighting for playing time at CAPS United. Former Mushowani Stars centre-back, Webster Tafa, and Tafadzwa Jaravani, who was with Black Rhinos last year, have also joined the team. “I am happy with my new recruits. They are showing the kind of hunger that I expect. It is still early days to talk much but I am happy with what I have seen so far,” said Dodo. “The players will be unveiled soon. Of course, our defence leaked a lot of goals and I am happy with those we have shipped. “We hope to perform better than we did last year. We cannot say much at the moment. CAPS United will be competitive, that is what I can say.” Only 10 players from the squad which did duty for CAPS United last season have been retained as the team have made sweeping changes to their playing staff. Mateyaunga, John Zhuwawo, Newman Sianchali, Phineas Bhamusi, Pride Zivengwa, Kelvin Ndebele, Ronald Chitiyo, Clive Rupiya, Musarurwa and Jangano are the only ones who have been allowed to stay put at the Green Machine. CAPS United squad so far
Goalkeepers: Wallace Magalane, Tatenda Munditi, Tonderai Mateyaunga
Defenders: Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye, Munyaradzi Kunyarimwe, Carlos Mavhurume, Justice Jangano, Webster Tafa, Brendon Mpofu, Tafadzwa Jaravani, Valentine Musarurwa
Midfielders: Innocent Mucheneka, Ronald Chitiyo, Kelvin Ndebele, Clive Rupiya, James Marufu, Ishmael Wadi, Enock Karembo, Pride Zivengwa, Leeroy Mavhunga, Phineas Bhamusi
Strikers: John Chinyerere, Tatenda Tumba, Newman Sianchali, Joseph Tulani, Obey Muleya, John Zhuwawo, Tinashe Balakasi