The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
HERENTALS will argue that the ruling, which found them guilty of match-fixing, was an invalid judgment signed by only two of the three PSL disciplinary committee members, with one of them even signing it twice. The Students will also argue that there was “no sufficient and satisfactory evidence to support the guilty verdict against the Appellant (Herentals) and the conviction of the Appellant is accordingly set aside.’’ They will claim the PSL Disciplinary Committee “erred and misdirected itself at law in failing to consider the evidence of the appellant in that it did not participate in any activity that is corrupt, dishonest or illegal.’’ The club will also question why the same committee “failed to justify why it could not also convict the 2nd Respondent (Black Rhinos), considering the charge should have implicated the purported receiver and the purported giver of the alleged token of bribe.’’ Herentals will today appear before the ZIFA Appeals Committee, pleading for relief, after they docked three points, following the guilty verdict. They are being accused of influencing the result of their 3-0 win over Black Rhinos in a league match last year. Herentals, who will be relegated from the Premiership, in the event their appeal fails, were docked three points and slammed with a $300 000 fine. Former Black Rhinos team manager, Gift Kamuriwo, who was also sanctioned by the PSL disciplinary committee, provided an affidavit saying, indeed, he was the middleman in the shoddy deal to manipulate the result of that match. Rhinos forward, Gift Saunyama, also provided supporting documents backing the story that Herentals officials, indeed, started a process to influence the result of that match to survive the chop. In the event the Students are relegated, Chapungu — where former Zimbabwe captain Moses Chunga started work as head coach on Monday — will take their place in the top-flight league. Yesterday, The Herald got a copy of the Herentals appeal, prepared by their lawyers, Chimwamurombe Legal Practice, whose heads of argument the Students will use to try and have the guilty verdict overturned. The Harare club will argue that: The fatal irregularity on the signatures raises doubt as to whether the judgment was arrived at by the full PSL Disciplinary Committee. Similar cases were not treated with such heavy penalty. The case will decide when the domestic Premiership will start.