The Herald Sports Reporter PRINCE Edward and Chisipite Schools were the winners at the Inter-Schools Sprints Challenge which attracted 17 schools in Harare yesterday. The event, hosted by Prince Edward School, saw eight schools competing in the boys section and nine in the girls. Prince Edward topped the boys competition with a total of 159 points after dominating most of the events although they missed out on the 4x100m relay, for Under-15s, when they were disqualified. Team captain, Leeroy Bill Antonio, said they were expecting more as the season progresses. “The competition was very tight . . . Our Under-15 dropped the baton and, for the last two relays, it was a must-win. And, my team showed a lot of stamina on the track and we managed to win most of our races. “It was a must win for the season because it’s like our warm-up for the season. As we go towards the provincials of NASH, Peterhouse relays, Lomagundi, St George’s, we strive to win all of those,” said Antonio. They were followed by Peterhouse in second position with 135 points while Lomagundi were in third place. In fourth position were Watershed. St George’s and St Johns were fifth and sixth respectively. Gateway were seventh and Sodbury finished in eighth place. It was a Harare affair with Chisipite claiming the girls trophy after accumulating 163 points to beat Lomagundi into second place with 161 points in a close contest between the two schools. Chisipite captain, Stacie Selby, saluted her teammates for giving a good account of themselves. “I am just so proud of our runners, we have trained so hard for this and we really deserved it and I am so grateful that we were able to come out here and PE for hosting it. “I am excited to see what comes with the rest of the season. I am excited to see how far we can go and what we can achieve,” said Selby. Sodbury girls finished third with Arundel in fourth place, Peterhouse (fifth). Girls High (sixth), Watershed (seventh), Gateway (eighth) and Dominican Convent in ninth position.