The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S swimming team for the CANA Zone IV championships left the country yesterday for Botswana carrying high hopes to win some medals. The meet gets underway tomorrow in Gaborone. The competition is running until Sunday with a number of countries taking part. Patrick Duff, who had made it in the 11-to-12 age group, could not travel due to injury. Zimbabwe Swimming Board of Control chairperson, Tracey Doorman, believes they will have one of the strong teams at the meet. “We believe we have a strong team, in terms of the girls, the boys’ team is stronger than last year, so we hope for an improvement in position and results. “We had an injury to Patrick Duff, he broke his collarbone, so he was unable to travel. “No replacement was made, his swims were absorbed by others in his age-group,” said Doorman. In the previous edition in Namibia, last year, Zimbabwe ended in fourth place out of the 10 countries that took part. Some of the swimmers that impressed last year included Vhenekai Dhemba, who scooped 11 medals, including nine gold for Zimbabwe. She is part of the team this year. Denilson Cyprianos and Paige van der Westhuizen will also be among the leading swimmers for Zimbabwe. South Africa-based Nomvula Mjimba, who has been doing well at her base will compete in the girls 17-and-Over age group. The team is led by coaches Sheelah Crause and Masi Takaedza. Noe Cyprianos is the manager and the head of delegation is Mary Kloppers.  Zimbabwe’s CANA Zone IV Team Girls 11/12: Tori Dawe, Peyton Wishart, Mikayla Makwabarara, Loyiso Mahobele. Boys 11/12: Limbikani Kalipengule, Khaya Vimba, Sean Reilly, Kyle Heyns. Girls 13/14: Timea Schultz, Mkhuseli Mahobele, Vhenekai Dhemba, Kiara Goodinson, Saira Ramajan. Boys 13/14: Bjorn Mhlanga, Tichatonga Makaya, Tawanda Chisungo, Onesimus Ngwenya. Girls 15/16: Paige van der Westhuizen, Riana Rollo, Nyasha Chinyani. Boys 15/16: Cory Werrett, Callum Morgan, Jasper Mpofu, Jake Oostindien, Nathan Ngwenya. Girls 17 and Over: Nomvula Mjimba, Siobhan Jones, Gemma Schonken, Courtney Brown. Boys 17 and Over: Denilson Cyprianos, Quintin Tayali, Joash McKonie, Brett Jones, Tait Mills.