The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE are looking to draw inspiration from their last tour of Bangladesh where they won their first away Test in 17 years in a competitive series that ended in a draw. The Chevrons, however, have had several changes to the squad that beat Bangladesh by 151 runs inside four days in Sylhet in November 2018. One of the five survivors of that victorious team, wicket-keeper/batsman Regis Chakabva, told the media in Bangladesh he was looking forward to a tough battle. Zimbabwe will play all three formats of the game against their opponents, beginning with the one-off Test on Saturday at the Sher-e-Bangla National Cricket Stadium. “Bangladesh have been always a competitive side. We are just focusing on our side to perform well,’’ he said. “We are concentrating on our strengths and what we need to do in the middle. “We need to look at that Test we won against Bangladesh (in Sylhet) and see how we played and achieved victory. “We need to repeat that type of performance.” Zimbabwe still have memories of their 151-run win to claim their first Test win in five years. It was also their first away Test victory in 17 years. Sadly, new Chevrons Test captain, Sean Williams, who was the star of the show with his man-of-the-match performances with the bat, is not part of the squad. The all-rounder remained home to be with his wife for the birth of their first child. In his absence, middle order batsman, Craig Ervine, will captain the team for the one-off Test match. Williams is only expected to join the Zimbabwe team for the three-match one-day international series against Bangladesh pencilled for March 1, 3 and 6 in Syhlet. The other missing names include Hamilton Masakadza who has since retired from the game, PJ Moor, and the injured duo of Tendai Chatara and Kyle Jarvis. Spinner Brendon Mavuta, who claimed 4-21 on debut, also failed to make the travelling list because of a dip in form. Chakabva, along with former captain Brendan Taylor, Donald Tiripano, Chris Mpofu and Sikandar Raza are the only players from the Zimbabwean team that last toured Bangladesh. Zimbabwe Test squad Sikandar Raza Butt, Regis Chakabva (wicketkeeper), Craig Ervine (captain), Kevin Kasuza, Timycen Maruma, Prince Masvaure, Christopher Mpofu, Brian Mudzinganyama, Carl Mumba, Tinotenda Mutombodzi, Ainsley Ndlovu, Victor Nyauchi, Brendan Taylor, Donald Tiripano, Charlton Tshuma