The Herald LAS VEGAS. — Deontay Wilder said he “rehabilitated” Tyson Fury from being “on coke and as big as a house” as they traded jibes at a final news conference for Saturday’s WBC world heavyweight boxing title rematch. The pair faced off at the MGM Grand, Las Vegas and shoved each other, prompting their teams to rush on stage. Their verbal sparring was often circus-like and continued as US television networks paused for advertising breaks. “I brought you back, put food on your table,” Wilder said. “And I’m doing it for a second time,” he continued. “Don’t you forget that. “I found you when you were strung out on coke, as big as a house and contemplating killing yourself. “I brought you to big-time boxing. I rehabilitated him back.” Fury fought WBC world heavyweight champion Wilder to a controversial draw in December 2018, six months after returning to the sport after 30 months away during which he used drugs and alcohol, gained 10st in weight and battled mental health issues. The last time the two faced off at a pre-fight news conference in Los Angeles in 2018 things boiled over, resulting in an on-stage melee. At the time, some back in the UK felt the altercation was conveniently staged. Those there largely felt it was genuine as the energy and air of nastiness in the room grew until it reached tipping point. Since then the pair have shared stages to hype this rematch but have each spoken about their once friendly rapport becoming strained. At a UK TV studio last year, they were made to share a sofa in a waiting room and barely uttered a word or looked at one another. This time around, the tone of Wilder’s comments regarding Fury’s mental health drew gasps among the hoards of assembled press. Their initial face-to-face clash may have felt a little false, but some of the vitriol exchanged pointed to an underlying animosity sure to culminate in a fight that will captivate Las Vegas. “He is spouting rubbish saying he gave me an opportunity,” Fury responded after Wilder’s tirade. “I gave him the biggest pay-day of his life, brought him to Las Vegas and this is how he thanks me. He has a lot of appreciation for someone who put millions in his account. “I will put you into permanent retirement, don’t you worry about that. “This is a big act for him. He is nervous underneath, I can see his heart beating through his jumper, he is terrified and he is getting knocked out.”