The Herald SITTING on the corridors of Mandava Stadium, Petros Mhari was moments away from realising a decades-long dream. He pondered how he had got to the point where he was now — in the FC Platinum changing room and about to make his debut for the Zvishavane side. A few weeks earlier, he had agreed a two-year deal with Dynamos, only to have a change of heart when coach Tenant Chilumba and FC Platinum called. It was March 9 2013, and FC Platinum were about to face CAPS United in the semi-final of the NetOne Charity Shield. Mhari still remembers that Saturday afternoon. “I felt so proud to sit, for the first time, in the change room holding my FC Platinum jersey,’’ he said. “I was going to make my debut and it came in one of the biggest matches one could have imagined — the Battle of Greens. “We lost to CAPS United 5-4 on penalties. “After the game I even went to a few photographers to check for pictures, as I felt I had made an immediate impact on debut and the performance gave me more belief.’’ Joining FC Platinum, ahead of the 2013 season, was the realisation of a life-long dream to play for an ambitious side outside Harare and Bulawayo that will go on to dominate local football. “It was an absolute honour to sign for FC Platinum, the biggest team in Zimbabwe and top 16 club on the African continent as things stand.” Having achieved his dream of playing in the CAF Champions league, and winning the league three times, Mhari, is equally proud to be part of the present team as they celebrate their 25th anniversary. “It means a lot to have played for FC Platinum over the last seven years,” Mhari said. “To win silverware with the club is massive and the club is on course to attaining its vision of becoming the leading club in Zimbabwe and Africa. “It is important for me to be part of this year’s 25th anniversary celebrations.” Mhari, who has featured in 245 games for Pure Platinum Play in all competitions since making his debut in March 2013, will go down in the history of the club as a player who always gave his all for the team. He has been part of the team that has won three league titles and three major cup trophies.