The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United administration is running around to make sure they address deficiencies which saw them lose the championship from their grip on the final day of last season. The Green Machine had looked so much in charge before they capitulated on the penultimate round before surrendering the Premiership football title to FC Platinum. Yet Makepekepe had the right personnel who had looked very much in possession of the right fortitude to land the crown. But monetary issues, coupled with some mercenary attitude on the players part, put paid to CAPS United’s charge for what should have been their sixth league title in their history. Makepekepe players refused to train in the run up to their last two games which they needed four points demanding their outstanding dues be paid first. It is against this background that the team’s administration has set aside over $3 million to ensure a smooth season. Despite releasing most of the mutineers from last season’s embarrassing episode, the team has moved to address monetary issues. Club co-director, Nhamo Tutisani, who has been preaching the need for the team to have a business acumen, said the Green Machine won’t have disturbances that rocked their camp in 2019 this coming season. “What we have done as a club is try to make sure that we have the necessities which we need in the entire season. As such we have set aside a significant amount to cater for the expenses needed for the smooth running of the club. “We would also like to salute our sponsors who have pledged to help us out this coming season,” Tutisani said. “It is obvious, as a club we would like to have things done professionally and it is our responsibility to ensure that the conditions for professionalism at the club are put on the ground. “We have been talking about commercialising the running of the club in the past few weeks, so that is one of the key issue if we are to fully implement our vision. “We have signed close to 18 players and we can add more. “Players are the key resources for our commercialisation so we are looking at it from a professional view. “We have done all we can this pre-season to make sure that we are in the right track both in terms of competition and professionalism in the 2020 season.” Tutisani also said his administration will not pile pressure on coach Darlington Dodo to win the league although he knows the team will be competitive enough. “The idea is not to say we are now strong enough to win the league title but, we are going to do business in a professional manner. “We are not going to be too demanding to the coach. We believe in his capabilities and his professionalism. “He did everything absolutely well last season and given the circumstances, he showed that he is a dependable gaffer. So we are not demanding anything from him. We know though that the team will be competitive under his tutelage.” Makepekepe have brought in 18 new players with former Warriors midfielder Richard Hachiro being their latest addition having arrived late last week. Hachiro will re-unite with former Herentals teammate Carlos Mavhurume who completed his move last month.