The Herald Shakira may have won the praise of American fans for her performance at the Super Bowl on Sunday, but her African ones were less than impressed . . . That’s because the Latina singer, who shared the stage with Jennifer Lopez, left out a critical line during her rendition of “Waka Waka”; and it was this important lyric; “This time for Africa”. Many of us will remember the song (sung with Freshlyground) as the anthem for the 2010 Soccer World Cup held in South Africa. It was an instant hit, and undoubtedly a moment for all of Africans. Shakira performed part of the hit song and then burst into a uniquely African choreographed performance complete with local beats and dance moves. US fans were loving it, but African fans were a tad bit annoyed at her . . .
Here’s why:
Did Shakira just leave the “This time for Africa” out of Waka Waka during BLACK HISTORY MONTH????
— Jordan???? (@jordan_theory) February 3, 2020 Shakira singing the World Cup 2010 song Waka Waka and omitting the line about Africa??
— Ryan Bailey (@RyanJayBailey) February 3, 2020 Bruh shakira really changed the lyrics of the songs that was made for World Cup in AFRICA to not mention Africa. ???? #PepsiHalftime
— the black Voice (@theeblackvoice) February 3, 2020 Why did they take the Africa line out of Waka Waka? It’s not even Shakira’s song, it’s a cover of an old Cameroonian group. Not cool. #SuperBowl
— Rebecca Crowley (@rachelmaybe) February 3, 2020 They also claimed she borrowed a lot of material for her performance from various African countries, again without crediting Africa!
To all my Latinos and everyone else watching the #SuperBowl wondering what genre of music Shakira and Lopez were dancing to, it’s known as Makossa. Originally from Cameroon ???????????? in #Africa#SBLIV#Mahomes#Chiefspic.twitter.com/vo8xy0IADs
— ?? C.J ?? (@jsc237) February 3, 2020 Shakira did a mhururu and people were hyped ??????it’s a sound of celebration in Zimbabwe and also parts of Southern Africa ??????????#PepsiHalftime pic.twitter.com/e8gyCbrQGQ
— Chelle Chips (@ChelleChipato) February 3, 2020 The Shakira tongue thing people talking about was her attempt at a Zalghouta, an act of ululating, the zalghouta is practised all the over the Middle East and some parts of Africa.
— Abed A. Ayoub (@aayoub) February 3, 2020 Shakira stole those African dance moves thats aint Latina moves. Hence Latina is Africa period #SuperBowl
— Kudzai Henry (@onerie) February 3, 2020