The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
AFRICAN Handball Confederation director of sport Noel Assemian arrived in the country yesterday ahead of a two-day inspection of the facilities Zimbabwe intend to use to host the IHF Trophy Zone Six in April. Assemian will assess the facilities and also give recommendations on the way forward to make sure they are up to scratch by the time the tournament gets underway. It is scheduled to run from April 24 to 30 this year. Speaking soon after his arrival in Harare yesterday, Assemian said he will be looking at the accommodation and match venues. “We have a big event here, IHF Trophy, and our procedure is that if a country wants to host, African Handball send an inspector,’’ he said. “We need to come to see the facilities (that will be used) for hosting this competition. This is why I am here. The expectation is to see the venues, the hotel the countries will be staying, the hotel CAHB officials and IHF officials will stay. All the countries in Zone Six will come here, so it’s a big event. “So, before we organise, we must come and see everything, that’s why I am here.’’ The CAHB director of sport said this was an opportunity for further development of the sport locally since they will also run referees and trainers courses as part of the competition. “It’s important for countries to host those events. Also when we come here, we also have a course for referees, course for trainers and this will give us a chance to develop handball in Zimbabwe. I think it’s an opportunity to host this competition,” said Assemian. The inspection will take place today and tomorrow. ZHF picked Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex and City Sports Centre for the competition. The handball mother body president, Stewart Sanhewe, said they have identified areas that need attention.“Each venue has got its own requirements,’’ he said. “Unfortunately, we have got certain equipment which are not functional which we intend to ensure it’s repaired if it can be repaired. “We have also written to IHF to bring in new equipment so that at the end of the day we are able to host with all the required equipment. “We will also hear what the inspector recommends, and then we will take it from there.’’ Zimbabwe are fielding both the 18-and-Under (youth) and 20-and-Under (junior) teams for the regional competition which also serves as a qualifier for the Junior and Youth World championships.