The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent
SUNGURA musician Aleck Musuki has urged lawmakers, community leaders and other influential people around the country to join hands in fighting child marriages. The Chazunguza Band leader has since committed his time to engaging community leaders, especially in rural areas, to educate them on the problems faced by young women who are forced into child marriages. Musuki has plucked off a song, “Zai Harina Muto”, from his previous album “Kusvika Wati Sorry” to create a jingle for use in his awareness initiative. “I have noted that there is a surge in cases of child marriages, especially in rural areas and communities which are still embroiled in their religion or cultural practices of marrying off their children at tender ages,” he said. “With the passage of time, we have come to the realisation that such practices are tantamount to human rights abuse. I am saying no to such practices and I am urging our community leaders, legislators and other influential people to join hands in fighting child marriages. “That idea prompted me to pluck off the song “Zai Harina Muto” from my previous album to send a message to the people.” Musuki said the track highlights the challenges faced by young women who are forced into early marriages. He said the song sends a clear message to would-be offenders, while calling for stiffer penalties against the perpetrators. “Music plays a pivotal role in influencing societal behaviour,” said Musuki. “We have also noted that this is the only way we can spread the message. With our music, we are prepared to complement and partner people who might be willing to fight child marriages. “The message should reach out to many people,” he said. Musuki said they were working on a video for the song, hoping it will be ready before Independence Day celebrations on April 18. The former Fishers of Men and Hosiah Chipanga’s Broadway Sounds bassist said his previous two projects, “Turn and Shoot” and “Chibhakera Chegwara”, carry tracks biased towards fighting social ills like domestic violence and any form of abuse against women and children.