The Herald Davison Bhunu Sports Reporter
TRIATHLETES from across the world have hailed the latest edition of the Bonaqua Troutbeck ATU Triathlon Africa Cup, held in Nyanga over the weekend, as a huge success. The tournament attracted 13 elite athletes from Zimbabwe, South Africa, Brazil, Russia, Mauritius, Syria, Switzerland and Egypt. Switzerland’s Andreas Salvisberg was the winner of the elite men’s race while Russia’s Anastacia Abrasimova’s splendid performance guaranteed her gold in the women’s elite race. Zimbabwe was represented by Laurelle Brown, who finished second in the women’s race, and Mathew Denslow. The tournament was the first elite competition for the 2019 junior athletes’ gold medal winner Denslow, who finished seventh, following his transition to the senior division. “It was hard but I expected it given that I was racing with some of the best athletes in the world and the experience was worthwhile. “I knew it was going to be a bit difficult but I am happy with my effort,” said Denslow. Switzerland’s Salvisberg hailed the tournament saying the Troutbeck field was one the toughest he has raced on. “The race today was about strength. l have never raced on anything as hard, it was one of the toughest races I have competed in. “The running field up and downhill the altitude was around 2 400 metres which is something I have never witnessed in triathlon, it was a really tough course,” said Salvisberg. Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister, Kirsty Coventry, praised the tournament organisers and the athletes for the successful event. “I would like to give credit where it is due and as a ministry, we would like to honestly say the triathlon family, you are probably our best. “It is truly exemplary to come and witness an event that has run so smoothly. “Thank you to all international athletes for coming to Zimbabwe. It is really special to have you guys in Zimbabwe and our younger athletes will be inspired by you. “Thank you very much for believing in this tournament and good luck to all of the athletes preparing for Olympics in Tokyo. “Thank you very much to all our sponsors and next time, my husband and I, are going to train and take part in the event,” said Coventry.