The Herald Talent Gore Herald Correspondent Government has expressed solidarity with the people of China following the outbreak of novel Coronavirus in the central city of Wuhan. At least 213 people have died in China, while 9 809 others have been infected. At least 102 000 were also reportedly under medical observation after presenting possible symptoms of the respiratory ailment. On Thursday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the new coronavirus outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. As of yesterday, 83 cases had been recorded in 18 countries, and of those cases only seven had no history of travel to China. There has been human-to-human transmission in three countries outside China. One of these cases is severe although no deaths had been reported. Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa applauded China for the swift measures it had taken to fight the deadly virus “Under the strong leadership of President Xi Jinping and the Communist Party in China, the Chinese government has taken swift and robust measures to protect not only its own citizens but also those around the world,” she said. Transparency “We are pleased to note the good progress achieved so far and commend China for its deep commitment to openness, transparency and international cooperation.” Minister Mutsvangwa said China had shown an admirable sense of responsibility and global leadership which had been widely recognised by WHO and the international community at large. “We are fully confident that the Chinese nation will win the battle against the virus and push forward the frontier of human knowledge,” she  said. “As the Zimbabwean Government we value our traditional friendship with China. We stand ready to assist it in this fight and continue to strengthen the ties between our peoples in various fields to the benefit of both  countries.” In an interview, the director of epidemiology and disease control in the Ministry of Health and Child Care, Dr Portia Manangazira, said screening of passengers arriving from China and other countries with confirmed 2019-nCOV transmission commenced on January 25. “As of 28th January 2020, 129 travellers arriving in Zimbabwe from countries with confirmed coronavirus transmission have been documented,” read the statement. “None of these travellers had symptoms suggestive of coronavirus infection on arrival. They are being monitored daily by health workers to determine the development of any suggestive symptoms. Daily monitoring will be completed on February 7, 2020.” Health authorities at Zimbabwe’s ports of entry have moved to reduce the possible spread of the deadly coronavirus by screening visitors and monitoring threats. African countries are stepping up surveillance efforts following the emergence of the first suspected cases of the deadly novel coronavirus outbreak in Botswana, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia and Kenya. Botswana recorded its first ever suspected case on Thursday. The suspected case was registered at Sir Seretse Khama International Airport upon arrival using Ethiopian Airlines from China. In a statement, the Botswana government said the suspected case was still in isolation and investigations were ongoing. “The ministry continues to monitor the situation closely in consultation with WHO and we advise those travelling to practise good hygiene and avoid affected crowded places,” read the statement. Mozambique suspended travel visas between Mozambique and China as a preventative measure. Surveillance Despite WHO classifying Zambia as a low-risk country, the country’s government has boosted surveillance of the killer disease at entry points across the country, mainly airports. Kenyan Airways, RwandAir, Air Madagascar, Air Mauritus and Royal Air Maroc have all suspended flights to and from China. These airlines said the suspensions were indefinite and offered refunds or re-routes to passengers who had booked flights to China. However, Africa’s largest aviation operator, Ethiopian Airlines, on Thursday said it would continue to operate all its flights to China, adding that it was working with relevant authorities to “protect its passengers and crew” from the virus.