The Herald Joseph Madzimure Senior Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Energy Regulatory Authority (ZERA) says it will deal directly with potential investors in new power projects to curb corruption. This comes as Energy and Power Development Minister Fortune Chasi has demanded that a major South African energy investor must name the Zimbabweans he claimed to have demanded bribes. Recently, South African businessman Engineer Matshela Koko threatened to expose officials frustrating the implementation of a licensed US$250 million solar power station in Zimbabwe after they demanded bribes and Minister Chasi is now encouraging him to do that so the culprits can be hunted down. The former South African power utility, Eskom, chief executive made the allegations on social media in reference to his 100MW project that was licensed in July last year. In a social media post, Eng Koko said the unnamed individuals had demanded bribes, resulting in delays in the implementation of the project since July. “Matshela Energy received a generation licence July 2019. Six months later, nothing has happened. Our plan was to break ground in August 2019. So many people have tried to extort money from me and I refused. It is a shame,” said Eng Koko. Zera and the Minister have moved swiftly to reassure the investor. Says Zera: “It has come to the attention of the Zimbabwe Energy Regulatory Authority that some unscrupulous people are misleading (especially foreign) potential investors. They misrepresent themselves as middlemen who can organise meetings and follow up on progress in the licensing process by unsuspecting investors. Investors and the public are hereby advised that Zera does not work through third parties such as middlemen, facilitators or agents in or outside the country. “Please be advised that ZERA does not charge any fee for inquiries on the energy sector or any other generic and operational issues,” read the statement. Zera says energy licences for investors are issued in terms of the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, the Electricity Act, the Petroleum Act and ancillary statutes. Minister Chasi has urged Eng Koko to name the concerned individuals.