The Herald Victor Maphosa Herald Correspondent
The Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) and Harare Institute of Technology (HIT) yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which will see the two institutions collaborate in the areas of research and development. ZDF Commander, General Valerio Sibanda and Vice Chancellor Engineer Quinton Kanhukamwe represented the two institutions. Gen Sibanda said the partnership will be critical in solving challenges faced by the nation through innovation. He said the partnership presented an excellent opportunity to collaborate in the areas of academic exchange. “This MoU presents an excellent opportunity for us to collaborate in the areas of academic exchange and study as we seek to capacitate our staff with requisite knowledge and skills,” said Gen Sibanda. “I am aware that HIT has already been collaborating with the Zimbabwe Defence Industries and the Air Force of Zimbabwe. “This MoU that we are signing today caps all these interactions and more that will follow. It is a giant step towards our aspirations for a relevant and sustainable research and development programme and is full of promise.” Gen Sibanda said the military played an important role in national development. “I want to believe that our two institutions have common values and a shared vision towards achieving a sustainable national development,” he said. “It is on this understanding that together we will be able to resolve challenges and problems affecting our great nation through invention and innovation. “Historically, the world over, the military has played a key role in national development through research and development. This has been made possible through collaboration with institutions of higher learning, industry and commerce. “The ZDF is and should not be an exception, hence this partnership that we are entering into today. It is my hope that this MoU will commit our two institutions to closely working together and I am confident that this partnership with yourselves will keep us abreast with the technology curve by developing new products and services and improving on existing ones.” Eng Kanhukamwe said HIT will ensure that the partnership will be a success. “It is pleasing to note that the ZDF are seeking this partnership and we believe that this collaboration will promote research, the exchange of ideas and knowledge, as well as establishing common research themes that will lead to innovative research outcomes,” he said. “HIT will mobilise human capital and intellectual prowess to ensure that the various research projects under this partnership with ZDF bear fruits.” Eng Kanhukamwe said the MoU will play an important role in promoting collaborative research in engineering and technology fields.