The Herald Senior Business Reporter
LISTED clothing retail chain, Edgars Stores Limited has appointed a new chief executive officer Ms Tjeludo Ndlovu taking over from Mrs Linda Masterson who has retired. The appointment is with effect from July 1, 2020. The  clothing retail chain said: “The board of directors of Edgars Stores Limited is pleased to announce the appointment of Ms Tjeludo Ndlovu as the group chief executive officer with effect from July 1, 2020.” Ms Ndlovu  holds among others, the Chartered Accountant (Zimbabwe) qualification. She joined the Edgars group eight years ago, coming from the profession where she had risen to the position of audit manager. “She joined the group as group financial accountant, a role in which she doubled up as company secretary. “Having distinguished herself in that role, she was elevated to managing director for the Jet Chain and later to managing director of the Edgars chain,” said the group. It said Ms Ndlovu takes reigns of the business at a time of great economic difficulty in the country, compounded by the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The board is confident that she will be equal to the task at hand.” Meanwhile, Edgars Stores Limited has also appointed Mr Bright Ndlovu as the group chief finance officer with effect from June 1, 2020. “The board of directors is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr Bright Ndlovu as the chief finance officer with effect from 1 June 2020.” A qualified chartered accountant, Edgars said Mr Ndlovu is also an associate Chartered Management Accountant (CIMA) and a holder of a Master of Business Leadership from the University of South Africa. He joined the Edgars group in 2011 as the group credit executive. Mr Ndlovu later led management effort in
the creation of Club Plus, Edgars’ microfinance unit, which has been witnessing significant growth. “Recently, he has led the transformation of group credit into the financial services division. “He is therefore well versed with the group’s management systems and will provide a significant measure of continuity in the department. “We wish him well in his new responsibilities during a time of very difficult economic conditions,” said Edgars. 