The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Leeds United and Bafana Bafana legend Lucas Radebe has expressed his delight at his former club’s return to the Premier League while sharing his expectations for next season. Leeds made a spectacular return to the English top-flight as they clinched automatic promotion with two matches to spare last Thursday. The 51-year-old former defender, who has a suite named in his honour at Elland Road, spent 11 years at the club before retiring in 2005. Now back home in South Africa, “Rhoo” found himself stranded and unable to return to England for the celebrations due to the lockdown, but instead took to his Instagram account while enjoying a Sunday braai to open up on The Peacocks’ massive achievement. “Congratulations to the big boys, they’ve made it! At last, (after) 16 years. 16 long years in the Championship — I think they deserve to be back,” said Radebe during a live stream from his home. “I think I’m over the moon . . . It’s a pity man, I would have loved to be back in Elland Road or in Leeds, celebrating with the boys, but nevertheless I’m here with the crest — that’s what matters most. “I think it’s going to be a great season for us next season. I think a lot of teams in the Premier League have missed coming to Elland Road, so we’re ready. “We love Bielsa, we love all the boys — the whole squad. The chairman Andrea (Radrizzani), thank you for investing in this club. “I think your heart and soul is buried deep in this club and it shows. Your investment is worthwhile and this is the result, and the boys are feeling it.” Prominent Zimbabwean Leeds United fans include journalist Jahoor Omar, the former Sports Editor of The Herald, African Distillers managing director, Cecil Gombera, and banker Desmund “Dezola’’ Ali. Meanwhile, just days after confirming his exit from Club Brugge, Bafana Bafana star Percy Tau is now reportedly closing in on a sensational loan deal to join rivals Anderlecht. On Monday morning, reports emerged from Belgium claiming that the former Mamelodi Sundowns star was closing in on a deal to join Anderlecht for the 2020/21 campaign. According to HLN, Vincent Kompany’s side has entered final negotiations with Brighton & Hove Albion over the short-term deal for the 26-year-old, who recorded four goals and eight assists in 30 appearances last season. Anderlecht are reportedly interested in Tau’s services due to his ability to play across the front line, and see him as a value-for-money signing when compared to the club’s errors in the transfer window last season. It is claimed further that Tau will undergo a medical in South Africa ahead of the move, which would see Anderlecht become his third Belgian club in as many seasons, having spent the past two campaigns with Union Saint-Gilloise in the nation’s second division and Brugge, respectively.  Fellow Jupiler Pro League side Royal Antwerp, who finished four places ahead of Anderlecht last season, have also been credited with an interest in the 2017/18 PSL Golden Boot winner’s services. — KickOff.com