The Herald LONDON. — It’s squeaky bum time as the final week of the Premier League, and Championship seasons, are set to be dramatic with a lot still to play for, including the race for the top four, promotion and the battle to avoid relegation. Brighton secured their Premier League status for another season after an uneventful goalless draw against Newcastle at the Amex Stadium last night. This means another potential candidate has moved away from relegation trouble, leaving Aston Villa, Watford, who sacked Nigel Pearson on Sunday after he had a row with owner Gino Pozzo, and Bournemouth to try and avoid the chop. Two of them will go down. Watford play Manchester City and Arsenal in their last two games while Villa take on Arsenal before facing West Ham on the final day. The Hornets are on 34 points, three ahead of Villa and Bournemouth on 31, with already relegated Norwich 10 points behind on 21. Villa and the Cherries are four goals worse off than Watford and goal difference could still come into play if teams finish the season on the same points. Watford caretaker manager, Hayden Mullins, will be hoping his side can avoid a repeat of their 8-0 defeat by Manchester City back in September. Brighton and Hove needed one point to guarantee their survival and they were rarely threatened by the Magpies in both sides’ penultimate game of the season. Chances at either end came at a premium but Graham Potter’s hosts were unfortunate not to be awarded a penalty in the first half. Neal Maupay appeared to be brought down by Matt Ritchie but the Frenchman opted to get back to his feet and play on, without appealing for a spot-kick. Only two of Chelsea, Leicester and Manchester United will qualify for the Champions League while Aston Villa are hoping they can overtake Watford in the race for Premier League survival. The Championship has lived up to its reputation of being one of the most competitive divisions in world football with three clubs fighting for the final automatic promotion spot while all three relegation spaces are still to be confirmed. The final play-off spot is also up for grabs with Swansea looking to overtake arch-rivals Cardiff. THE RACE FOR THE TOP FOUR Leicester’s defeat by Tottenham on Sunday made it advantage Chelsea and Manchester United in the battle to secure a top-four finish. After beginning the restart 14 points clear of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side, Leicester are now level with United having played a game more and they could drop out of the Champions League places if United beat, or draw, against West Ham tomorrow. The Foxes are hanging on to fourth place by four goals, partly thanks to that 9-0 victory over Southampton back in October. Chelsea can secure their place in the top four if they beat champions Liverpool. However, Jurgen Klopp’s side have not lost a league game at Anfield since April 2017 and should they beat, or draw with the Blues, United would have the chance to move up to third. But Leicester still have their fate in their hands because of a final day showdown with United at the King Power Stadium. Should the Red Devils lose to West Ham, Brendan Rodgers’ side will need just a point to qualify for the Champions League. A point would also be enough if Chelsea lose to Liverpool and Wolves in their final fixtures. But positive results for their rivals in their penultimate games would require the Foxes to take all three points. DON’T FORGET… Five clubs are still in contention for the three Europa League places. Spurs, Wolves, Sheffield United, Burnley and Arsenal can all still finish sixth and seventh. While five clubs can still be relegated mathematically, it looks as if Aston Villa and Watford will battle it out to avoid taking up the third space in the bottom three. Bournemouth’s defeat by Southampton on Sunday means Eddie Howe’s side will have to beat Everton on the final day and hope Watford and Villa lose their remaining fixtures. West Ham and Brighton, who are both six points clear with two to play, look to be safe regardless of what they do in their final fixtures because of a superior goal difference. AUTOMATIC PROMOTION RACE Leeds were confirmed as champions over the weekend after West Bromwich Albion and Brentford succumbed to the end-of-season jitters with defeats by struggling Huddersfield and Stoke. Those results handed Fulham an opportunity to make it a three-horse race for the second automatic promotion slot and Scott Parker’s side gladly accepted with a 5-3 victory over Sheffield Wednesday. West Brom remain in the driving seat on 82 points, one ahead of Brentford and two clear of Fulham.— BBC Sport/Mailonline.