The Herald LONDON. — Lewis Hamilton has said Formula 1’s authorities, teams and drivers need to “do so much more” in the fight against racism and inequality, after pre-race scenes at the Hungarian Grand Prix the six-time champion labelled “embarrassing”. For the second successive weekend, the gathering of F1’s drivers in an anti-racism demonstration has been criticised for being disjointed and not presenting a united front in the sport’s messaging. Not all of the 20 drivers again arrived in time before the Hungarian national anthem while, as has become common place since the season began in Austria a fortnight ago, not all of those present took a knee. In an interview with Sky Sports F1 after the race, Hamilton said of F1’s organisers: “They need to do a better job. It was such a rush. I was getting out of the car, running over, and quickly taking the knee.” Hamilton also criticised Romain Grosjean, a director of the Grand Prix Drivers’ Association which all 20 drivers are members of, and said he would be contacting F1 to ask for the drivers to be given more time to show their support. The Mercedes driver has since elaborated on his thoughts — and issued a robust rebuke of several areas of the sport. In a post on Instagram on Sunday night, Hamilton said: “Today I raced for everyone out there who is pushing to make positive change and fight inequality, however, sadly, as a sport we need to do so much more. “It is embarrassing that many teams have not made any public commitment to diversity or that we couldn’t properly find time to make a symbolic gesture in support of ending racism before the race. “Today felt rushed and massively lacked organisation and effort, which in turn dilutes the message and makes it seem like there was something more important. It doesn’t matter if you stand or kneel, but we should be showing the world that F1 is united in its commitment to equality and inclusivity.” F1 and the FIA have recently both recently reaffirmed their commitment to ending global racism, while also improving diversity and equality within the sport. F1 launched We Race As One and a new task force ahead of the season, with further detail behind the long-term programme set to be announced soon. — Sky Sports.