The Herald CHAMPIONS LEAGUE SCENARIOS Manchester United (Third) *  Since United play fifth-placed Leicester, a win or a draw will ensure a top-four finish. *  United can still qualify if they lose as long as Chelsea also lose to Wolverhampton Wanderers and United’s advantage on goal difference (+15 over Chelsea) is maintained. *  If United miss out on a top four spot, they can still qualify for the Champions League if they win the Europa League. Chelsea (Fourth) * Chelsea will finish in the top four with a win or a draw against Wolves. * If Chelsea lose to Wolves, they will qualify if United beat Leicester. * If Chelsea miss out on a top four spot, they can still qualify for the Champions League by winning this year’s competition next month.  Leicester City (Fifth) * A win will allow Leicester to leapfrog United and seal a top four spot. * If Leicester draw with United and if Chelsea lose to Wolves, Leicester will qualify due to a better goal difference than Chelsea. * A defeat for Leicester will see them miss out on the Champions League. RELEGATION SCENARIOS Tiebreaker rules for deciding final positions if teams are tied on points: * Goal difference * Goals scored * Points won in head-to-head games * Away goals scored in head-to-head games Aston Villa (17th) * Villa will stay up if they win at West Ham and Watford do not win away at Arsenal. * Villa will stay up if they win and Watford also win, providing Watford do not win by a margin at least two goals larger or if the teams finish with identical records in goal difference and goals scored. With points gained in the head-to-head meetings the same, an improbable 7-5 win for Watford and a 1-0 win for Villa, for example, would see Watford stay up due to the away goal they scored in the head-to-head between the sides. * If Villa draw, they will stay up if Watford do not win. * If Villa lose, they could stay up if Watford also lose (providing Villa don’t lose by a margin at least two goals greater than Watford or providing their goal difference and goals scored are not identical to Watford’s) and Bournemouth do not beat Everton away.  Watford (18th) * Watford will stay up if they beat Arsenal and if Villa lose or draw at West Ham. * If Watford lose, they could still stay up if Villa also lose but by at least a two-goal greater margin (or if their goal difference and goals scored are identical) and if Bournemouth fail to win. * If Villa win, Watford must also win by a two-goal greater margin to overhaul Villa’s goal difference or by a one-goal greater margin providing their goal difference and goals scored are identical. For example if Villa win 1-0, Watford would need to win 3-0. If Villa win 2-0, Watford would need to win 4-0 etc. Yet a 7-5 win for Watford and a 1-0 win for Villa would see Watford stay up due to the away goal they scored in the head-to-head between the sides.  Bournemouth (19th) * Bournemouth must win at Everton and hope Villa and Watford both lose. All three would then be on 34 points but Bournemouth’s goal difference would be better. * A draw or a loss will see Bournemouth go down regardless of the other results. English Premiership Fixtures (all kick-off at 5pm) Tomorrow: Chelsea v Wolverhampton Wanderers; Newcastle United v Liverpool; Crystal Palace v Tottenham Hotspur; Arsenal v Watford; West Ham United v Aston Villa; Southampton v Sheffield United; Leicester City v Manchester United; Everton v AFC — AFP.