The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter THE renovations of Chinhoyi Stadium are close to 80 percent complete with the municipality now working on the modalities to secure standard goalposts and putting final touches on the facility. The stadium is earmarked for use by Black Rhinos should the 2020 Premiership season get underway this year. The venue failed to meet top-flight requirements, earlier this year, forcing Black Rhinos to settle for Trojan Stadium in Bindura. However, the campaign was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But, the Chinhoyi Municipality kept refurbishing the stadium after having set aside over $1.6 million towards the upgrade. New changing rooms, and medical and press rooms, have been constructed while the sitting bays have also been repaired with bucket seats installed in the VIP Enclosure. The drainage system, ablution facilities, as well as the playing surface, have all been improved while a new perimeter wall has also been erected. Chinhoyi Town Council public relations manager Tichaona Mlauzi, said the renovations were almost complete and the stadium will be ready for inspection by the ZIFA First Instance Board in the coming few weeks. “We have worked round the clock, as a council, towards realising our dream of hosting Premiership matches,” said Mlauzi. “Look, the stadium was in a bad state when Black Rhinos approached us, early this year, saying they were interested in hosting their home matches at the facility. “As a town, with the ambition to become a city, we saw that was a big opportunity. “However, there was little time between the period Rhinos informed us of their intentions, and the time the league was originally supposed to kick off. “But, then, Covid-19 hit the country and, as a council, we had to take advantage of the window to swiftly transform the stadium. “As of now, there are very few issues which we are still to sort, but, I can safely say we have done the majority of the work which we needed to do. “We are only left with some few areas, including sourcing standard goalposts for the stadium, and some paintings, otherwise, we are almost there.” Mlauzi said the stadium will be ready by the time the season gets underway. Black Rhinos secretary-general, Edward Mutukwa, hailed the council for the work they have done. “We never thought they were going to do such significant work by this time,’’ said Mutukwa. “We thought they would be done, maybe by the end of the year but, with Covid-19, we even thought, they will only do that next year. “This is commendable but we will wait until the stadium is approved by the FIB. “We are willing to play our matches in Chinhoyi. In fact, we are the ones who approached them and they have shown incredible interest by undertaking the work they have done so far.” Northern Region Division One side, Chinhoyi Stars, also use the stadium for their home matches.