The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — A leading club boss in the South African Premiership wants the 2019/20 season cancelled after revealing the extraordinary amount clubs will need to pay for the resumption of the campaign. The PSL have selected Gauteng to host the 32 Absa Premiership and GladAfrica Championship teams to conclude their league seasons, as well as the Nedbank Cup semi-finals. But, completing the remaining games will be tougher than most people think as only a few clubs can afford the cost of competing in the proposed bio-bubble, according to the experienced football administrator. “This thing is costing like around R1 375 a day for each person there,” the official said. “Now if you go and calculate the six weeks, if it goes to 45 days that’s like R3-million just for accommodation and food, per club. “Now let’s say you are a GladAfrica team, your grant was even. . . . R3-million is like grant for six months, and there you are going to spend it just for six matches. It’s going to be very costly for clubs. “What is the benefit? Because now it’s even August already (when football will resume). You’d rather skip August and prepare rather for the new season and start afresh in September. “Obviously me now I’m pushing it because I’m affected, besides the cost. It should be obviously null and void. It’s 80 percent there I think because the last meeting, that’s what we were talking. “But, other people (clubs) don’t agree because they thought the League is going to pay. And everyone is expected to pop out from their pockets. Even premier division teams, I don’t think they can afford this money. “I mean if you look at the top, Chiefs are not guaranteed that they are going to win (the title). You look at the bottom, there’s about four, five of us . . . anyone can still get relegated. “GladAfrica at the top, the top six can still get promotion . . . where SAFA are saying they are going to start playing from level what-what, which means there are no teams that are going to be promoted from SAFA anyway.” Meanwhile, Mamelodi Sundowns have confirmed they had five positive Covid-19 cases, although these have since recovered and returned to the team’s camp. — KickOff.com