The Herald Nobuhle C Nleya and Prudence P Muvhiza Midlands State University
Trying to figure out life on its own, what it entails and requires is hard especially when one takes the time to look into the pre-occupations of many Zimbabwean youths. During the current national lockdown, many young people seem to have hit a brick wall in terms of not knowing where and how to get sources of income. They are in desperate need of funds because the national lockdown has closed down all the other avenues. Just thinking what life after university is going to be like or life without it as a whole was one of the major topics in the pre-pandemic era, but with the advent of Covid 19, most youths can only spread the gospel of fear of the number of lives that the virus is taking and whether it will all truly end. Most of us would have chosen to settle for things that keep us in our comfort zones – things that seem to make us happy. These lockdown times have given us the chance to reflect, and search within ourselves how we have been planning our lives. The lifestyles of those who enjoy themselves is centred on living on the edge, having fun, making money and being their own guardians. But with restrictions on resources and limited mobility, what would be next? How is or will the lockdown be of benefit to them? Wondering how all this is going to turn out and if one has been successful in discovering the main aim of what they are doing, is relevant to improving lives. It should therefore be important to every individual to introspect as to how they actually know, plan their lives so that in such situations they can plot their survival. Selma Mbakureva Midlands State University Living off-campus is the major challenge for most Higher and Tertiary students in Zimbabwe. Consequently, the challenges faced by students have led many to prefer on-campus accommodation, which, sadly, is only limited to returning students. Only first year students are guaranteed accommodation on campus. Soaring rentals have led many students to engage in normally unacceptable conduct. Female students date older men so that they have someone to pay their rentals, while some male students also date older women — “female blessers” — to take care of their accommodation. This tends to tarnish the image of all university students. Owners of the boarding houses are charging students in foreign currency. This is a serious problem because students cannot afford to pay in foreign currency, thus leading to unbecoming conduct among students. Payment of accommodation in foreign currency is unfair for students living off-campus because students who live on campus pay in local currency. The difference in treatment of students who live off-campus and those who live on campus is unfair. The curfew times for both students is not similar. The on campus curfew time is around 22.00hrs during the weekdays and 23.00hrs during weekends. This is different for the off-campus residences. The curfew can then become a barrier among students who wish to attend evening discussions and studies as they are forced to go home earlier before the discussions start. Transport to take students to and from the campus has become a serious challenge because there are fewer buses. Where transport is available, only a few students are accommodated in these buses. The issue of distance and theft has forced many students not to visit the library during the evening because of fear of being harassed and robbed at night. The challenges faced by students who are living off-campus can only end when universities take in more students and this way house owners will not be able to continue to fleece these poor students. The universities should also conduct site inspections to establish if these houses are fit for student accommodation. Chipo Chabarwa Midlands State University The notion of freedom and the ability to make one’s decisions is wonderful. But not being sure where to begin has led many to involvement in wrong things. Many have fallen victim, some are full of regrets others, have picked themselves up after falling at the end. You choose who you want to be. Varsity life can be either thrilling or a living nightmare. However, to some it’s where all kinds of people meet – the well to do and the not so well up. That’s when an individual finally learns to be an adult. One is exposed to all sorts of people – the bad and the good and it’s up to one to choose which path one wants to take. One can say it’s not everyone at varsity who wants to learn, others are there for different purposes – like to operate businesses. You just have to pick. It’s all about which will is stronger than the other, between good and evil. Varsity lifestyle makes the abnormal seem normal. So many abortions are taking place because students are exchanging partners like nobody’s business. There is competition over who dresses smartly and this has led to other students resorting to blessers. However, there are students who are competent at what they are doing and understand their purpose. Some students have lived to regret their actions; others managed to pick themselves up and refocused; while others are beyond redemption. Having the right circle of friends definitely helps one’s journey and makes it easier for one. The choice is for one to make – which path to take; where it’s heading; being competent; resisting peer pressure; earthly desires; and staying focused in order to achieve greater things in life. Shamiso M Ndangana Midlands State University WORK related learning phase, has been a period full of problems for many students because companies and senior workers take advantage of the students in many ways. Students on attachment are being taken for granted by organizations where the students are undertaking their industrial attachments. According to a limited survey I undertook, 80 percent of students are not being provided allowances, 15 percent are given peanuts while five percent are above the rest. One student on attachment says: “I am not being given anything. My family helps me with everything from bus fare but sometimes they don’t have money yet l am expected to be at work on time. This strains my family a lot”. Companies argue that they can do without interns but students can’t do without internship, which means that it’s a matter of choice to show their appreciation by paying students allowances even though companies can survive without them. Consequently, students are forced by circumstances beyond their control to give into situations. Students allege that they are “sexually harassed, manipulated and threatened”. If the offenders are exposed, it is their word against yours. It’s not fair, it’s frustrating but students endure all this in order to score good marks during assessment. For students on attachment, sexual harassment is “rampant” and the girl child is at risk as she needs money for rentals, food and transport because she is not given any allowances. Students need protection. They should be given allowances which are above the poverty datum line so that they can sustain themselves when on industrial attachments and thus lessen the burden on their parents and guardians. Ends// Courage Phiri Midlands State University The word evolution is commonly used to describe the introduction of a new era which brings with it new changes and new developments. The phrase “Lithium is the new Gold” needs not to be viewed differently and it is important to understanding why lithium is being described as the new gold. The change in value of minerals results from technological advances. The issue of evolution can be traced back to pre-industrialization era. The industrialization era saw the introduction of mass production and increased usage of minerals such as gold, giving it value. We are in the tech era, where technology has taken over hence the phrase “lithium is the new Gold”. Lithium plays a pivotal role in this change because it is the best mineral that is being used to manufacture new products. Lithium and ion have been found to be good minerals when it comes to the production of batteries. The company, Tesla has taken time to study the power and strength which lithium and ion have in manufacturing top quality batteries which are capable of powering powerful engine for 25 years before it is replaced. Tesla cars are already taking their market share. Toyota, Nissan and BMW have also taken to manufacturing lithium batteries and they are coming up with new car models which will be using the new battery technology. The way lithium is taking over the mineral market should be an eye opener that planet earth still has more that it can offer to the world. Africa and its schools, colleges and universities should become hubs encouraging students to come up with innovations. Ends//.