The Herald Collen Takaza University of Zimbabwe A class representative in tertiary institutions and universities plays a significant function in making constructive change possible between their class and the academic staff. Class representatives are chosen by their peers for the purpose of speaking for and representing the views of their class on academic issues to the lecturer, tutor, Department and Faculty. Depending on the number of students and institution, a single class may have two representatives. A Class representative would mainly raise matters that impact on the quality of schooling and the ability to study efficiently such as access to library, quality of lectures and learning facilities. Class representatives are answerable, first and foremost, to their fellow students and secondly to their lecturers. Becoming a class representative does not change one from being a student. It also does not mean becoming the best student in class though it is not advisable for a class representative to habitually fail. As much as it puts one under the spotlight, the task comes with responsibility just like other portfolios held by students at lower levels such as that of a group leader, class monitor or prefect. And for one to become a representative of note, he or she should possess great decorum and avoid being ostentatious. Being elected as a class representative means that the trust of class colleagues requires some dependability as the whole class expresses itself through the voice of this individual. To appropriately discharge their role as spokesperson, the representative asks for their classmates’ opinion without prejudice; asks them about shared challenges; and takes time to consult each one of them about inconveniences they might face. There is, as well, need for the class representative to confer with the whole class as often as possible before rushing to the lecturer or tutor with misguided views. The spokesperson should as well be sensitive to the inclusion of everyone in conversations by managing those who seek to dominate conversations. The class representative should be prepared to notify classmates when student feedback is needed for critical university or college plans. He or she should be able to liaise with the lecturer about questions or areas of concern raised by students and ultimately give feedback to the class on issues that would have been raised with the lecturer. An honourable class representative should be able to refer students to the relevant support services of the university. It is injudicious for a class representative to be unreasonably emotional. Instead he/she should seek to act in a professional and reverential manner to fellow students and staff. The role of the class representative has become even much more crucial and quite tiresome, during this Covid-19 era in which lectures and lessons are being conducted online. In an interview, a female class representative for a fourth year class with a local university noted that being the voice of students can weigh one down if not well managed. “Frankly speaking, this is work, especially in this Covid-19 period. Some of the students can put pressure on you and this task can impact your income as you call lecturers on behalf of the class and vice versa,” she notes. Class representatives, interviewed by this writer also reiterated that this is an enormous task that needs diligence and diplomacy in its execution. The class representative, in liaison with the lecturer, may be involved in planning time and dates for an online lessons or discussions. In addition, he or she may be tasked by the lecturer to urge colleagues to finish up and submit assignments on time. As a form of appreciation of the work of the representatives, some tertiary institutions provide them with free lunches. There are some don’ts for class representatives. These include acting as if one is a lecturer, thinking that one student’s issue is held by the whole class and escalating issues without seeking advice. The class representative should as well be able to handle confidential matters in a mature manner. Another interviewee — a young male who is a class representative with a local university — says that being a representative of students has its painful moments. At one time, he recalls, the pain of failing an examination when their programme co-ordinator handed him results for those who had sat for supplementary examinations. “It was an agonising experience. I had to call one person at a time and four amongst those who had written the supplementary examination had failed, which meant that they could not continue with us. “Showing them their results was a painful experience,” he says. Despite the task being at times burdensome, becoming a class representative is worth it because it trains one to be patient and long-suffering and to practise good people skills. For students who hanker to cut their teeth in leadership, becoming a class representative is an invaluable way. One should, however, remember that leadership is not about fame, or a title, or a position, but about leaving an indelible mark or making a lasting impact.