The Herald LONDON. — The only consolation for David De Gea yesterday was that Roy Keane does not work for the BBC. Heavens, there would have been some snarling had he been in the studio. Chelsea  beat Manchester United 3-1 and they are in the FA Cup final, and deservedly so, but the talking point here was the role in their progression played by Manchester United’s goalkeeper. He was weak for their first, but wasn’t alone in that; it was poor defending all round from Manchester United. Yet while there was also a serious error in the build up to the second, De Gea’s involvement was little short of calamitous. As for the third, well by then it really wasn’t his day; beaten at the near post again, but this time by the outstretched boot of his captain, Harry Maguire. De Gea had a stinker; but he wasn’t alone. What a day for Frank Lampard and Chelsea, though. One victory away now from a trophy in his first year as Chelsea manager. Not the kind that keeps managers in jobs with Roman Abramovich, mind, but an impressive start given the restrictions of his first season, and the progress made with a young team. This was an outstanding performance in a game they were not expected to win. Manchester United’s are Project Restart’s stand-out team and before this weekend, the expectation was of the first Manchester derby FA Cup final. So much for that. Chelsea were on top from the start and ahead after 55 minutes. That we were still watching the first-half shows the time taken out of this game to deal with a succession of head injuries, poor Eric Bailly’s the most disturbing. So it was late in the day when Chelsea got what their first-half performance deserved, and De Gea’s horrors began. Willian found Cesar Azpilicueta on the right and he whipped in a low cross which Olivier Giroud converted at the near post, having got in front of Victor Lindelof in his trademark style. De Gea got a hand to it, but could not keep the ball out. Should he have done better? Undoubtedly — but the same could most certainly be said of Lindelof. Just as Brandon Williams was greatly at fault for the sloppy pass that let Mason Mount in after 47 minutes. What happened next, though, was a calamity of Dea Gea’s making. Mount’s shot, 25 yards out, was relatively tame. It was low, but not particularly fierce or troublesome to a goalkeeper of De Gea’s historic calibre. Meanwhile, Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe yesterday says he is “deeply hurt” after defeat by local rivals Southampton 2-0 left them on the verge of relegation — with the video assistant referee denying them an injury-time equaliser. Sam Surridge fired home from a tight angle, but a VAR review correctly found that Callum Wilson was offside. Danny Ings had put Southampton ahead and Che Adams blasted in a second right at the death to complete an agonising few minutes for Bournemouth. They will be relegated on Tuesday if Watford get a point against Manchester City — or if the Hornets get one against Arsenal on the final day. “The key thing is while there’s still hope we have to believe, until such time as it is mathematically impossible,” said Howe. “You never know in football, crazy things happen. That’s my immediate thought, but very disappointed. A big chunk of our destiny and our future was still sort of in our hands. It feels like that has slipped away a little bit. “I am deeply disappointed, hurt, loads of different emotions are going through my body right now.” The Cherries — who must win at Everton next Sunday to have any chance of survival — are three points behind the 17th-placed Hornets, who are set to sack Nigel Pearson, with a worse goal difference by four. — Mailonline.