The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester United midfielder Jesse Lingard says he was “lost as a player and person” during the 2019-20 football season. Lingard, who was limited to just nine English Premier League starts, says the recent campaign had been “difficult for so many reasons”. “I never wanted to give up,” Lingard posted on Instagram. “I knew who I really was on and off the pitch. “I knew having been there before I could get there again. It meant working harder than I’d ever done before.” The England midfielder (27) had assumed greater responsibility for his younger siblings after his mother fell ill earlier in the season. His performances for United waned as a result and, speaking to the Daily Mail in December, he said had been “down and glum”. Lingard revealed he had been told he was on his “last chance” by Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, following an incident on social media last summer. “I wasn’t performing and he [Solskjaer] was on me all the time. He wanted more from me,” he added. The midfielder was also reportedly the victim of verbal abuse, including a racial slur, as he boarded the team coach after the club’s FA Cup win at Derby County’s Pride Park in March. In his latest social media post, Lingard acknowledges the fans “frustrations” but says his “love for this club and everyone connected to it has never left me”. “This team, this club is my family and I will continue to keep working harder than ever to help this team achieve its goals,” he added. Lingard’s only league goal came in the eighth minute of stoppage time in his side’s crucial 2-0 win over Leicester City, which sealed third place and a Champions League qualification spot on the final day. And Bruno Fernandes has defended Manchester United team-mate Lingard after the winger scored in the 2-0 victory over Leicester City on Sunday. A second-half Fernandes penalty and Lingard’s late goal — after Kasper Schmeichel’s howler — secured the win as Man United re-joined Europe’s elite after a one-year absence. United continued their resurgence under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as they clinched third in the Premier League ahead of Chelsea. Lingard has found opportunities tough to come by at Old Trafford this season with his form on the decline for months and he gave an honest interview on Friday that explained how “family issues” have affected his performances on the pitch. And Fernandes says Lingard deserved his goal against Leicester on Sunday as he’s been working hard in training in an effort to help his team. Fernandes told MUTV: “Of course it’s a mistake from the keeper also but if Jesse doesn’t go there the goal doesn’t come so it’s for this we work. “For me Jesse deserved this goal because of what he works for all week, for all the comments everyone is saying about him and other players because they don’t play too much, or they don’t play good enough. “I think this is the reason Jesse scored because we’re training hard, training hard to help all the team.” Speaking about his own goal record, Fernandes added: “I think the most important one will be the next. “I’m always thinking about the next one. I’m happy, all goals are important in different ways.”— AFP.