The Herald ZIMBABWE Cricket have said they are disappointed that circumstances, beyond their control, forced the postponement of the Chevrons’ eagerly-awaited tour of Australia next month. The country’s cricket authorities, and their Australian counterparts, announced yesterday they had agreed to postpone the ODI series scheduled between August 9 and 15. “The boards of both cricket bodies have come to the mutual conclusion due to a combination of factors, including: the short length of the series, the significant bio-security measures that would need to be implemented prior to August, and concern for the health and safety of players, match officials, and volunteers,’’ ZC said in a statement released yesterday. ZC acting managing director, Givemore Makoni, said deferring the tour was the only option. “We were excited about facing Australia but, given the circumstances, deferring the tour was the only option. “We are, however, looking forward to the rescheduling of the series as soon as practically possible.” His Cricket Australia counterpart, Nick Hockley, also weighed in saying it was in the best interest of both parties. “While we are disappointed to postpone the series, CA and ZC agree that in the best interest of players, match officials, volunteers as well as our fans, that this is the most practical and sensible decision. “We are committed to working with Zimbabwe Cricket on alternative dates to reschedule.” Under current Australian regulations, the Zimbabwean team would likely have had to endure a 14-day quarantine when entering the country, and possible further isolation when travelling across state boundaries within Australia. ZC chairman, Tavengwa Mukuhlani, said the Aussies were professional throughout the negotiations to try and find the best way forward. “I have to take my hat off to our colleagues at Cricket Australia for the professional manner in which they handled this process,’’ he said. “Their commitment, to try and help Zimbabwe Cricket, is beyond question and they know our national team can only become better by playing against top opposition like their national team. “The challenge we faced was that in some states, it’s possible for cricket to be played right now and in some cases it might not be the case. “So, in the end, an agreement to postpone our tour was the only one left on the table and, although our boys would have gained a lot from playing with such top opposition, the reality is that these are the uncertain times that we live in.’’ Cricket Australia have been very supportive of Zimbabwe Cricket. — ZC/AFP.