The Herald ZIMBABWEAN coach, Kaitano Tembo, says his world changed when he saw his former boss, Pitso Mosimane, crying during a training session, and the raw passion inspired him to also work hard. The gaffer, who turns 50 this month, has been a symbol of loyalty for South African Premiership side, SuperSport United, a club he joined when he arrived in that country at the turn of the millennium. Tembo worked under Mosimane, as an assistant coach, when the Mamelodi Sundowns gaffer was in charge of SuperSport United. He said that provided him with the perfect mentorship because Mosimane, who has become a symbol of excellence for black African coaches after guiding Sundowns to success in the CAF Champions League, had this raw passion to always try and be a winner. This, according to the SuperSport United coach, provided him with the inspiration to also work hard and pursue his dreams to become a coach. He said the day he saw Mosimane crying, because he wanted the team to continue with training after they had been disturbed, was the moment he knew the South African gaffer was destined for greatness. “He didn’t care who was seeing him. That’s how passionate he is,” Tembo told a South African Football Journalists media conference this week. “He inspired me. “He is ambitious and he is one coach who always wants to win and would do anything to get what he wants. He is extremely hard working. “He taught me how to analyse matches when I was still playing. He would call me and say ‘go and watch that match and report on that game, I need you to look out for one, two, three, four…’ “That’s how I learnt how to analyse the games. It made it easy for me to relay the message to the other players because he and (the late) Thomas Madigage would come to my place to talk football. “They played a huge role in me becoming a coach. They started preparing me while I was still playing.’’ Tembo said he understands why some people have misguided views on Mosimane. “He is one person I will always support. I know he is misunderstood, at times, because he is ambitious and wants to achieve things and am not surprised at where he is now because I saw it coming. “I remember when he was an assistant coach to Bruce (Grobbelaar) and the managers came to address us and they took long to come and we had already started training when they spoke to us. “After the bosses had addressed us, Bruce wanted to cancel training, but Pitso cried and insisted we continue with training. “For him it became so personal . . . that’s why some players don’t last with him because if you are not committed you have no chance, you can’t work with him. That’s how he is. “He cried, but don’t say it, hey. But, it is something positive because I saw someone who would go far. “He didn’t care who was watching, all he was concerned about was that we were in the relegation zone and wanted us to put more effort in training.” It appears respect between the duo is reciprocal with Mosimane telling the world, in October last year, he badly wanted Kaitano to win the MTN8 final against Highlands Park at the Orlando Stadium. Kaitano was chasing his first trophy as SuperSport United head coach. “I would like Kaitano (to win) because he is my former player and also to be his first trophy. It’s always good because I don’t like this thing of coaches being sacked,” said Mosimane. “I don’t want him to lose his job because South African coaches are being sacked and losing jobs to coaches from outside. I am not saying we must not get coaches from outside, but I am being patriotic. “I am looking after my people because I was born and bred here.’’ A solitary goal by Bradley Grobler secured a 1-0 win for Kaitano and his men. The silverware came in the year the Zimbabwean was celebrating 20 years of his marriage with SuperSport United. — The Citizen/New Frame/Sports Reporter.