The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter After hosting a successful online lockdown show a fortnight ago, organisers for the “Chabvondoka Concert,” have decided to bring back the show this Saturday. The online concert, which is being hosted and sponsored by leading United Kingdom-based freight forwarding company — Swiss Global Freight Forwarding (SGFF) — is aimed at giving Diaspora artistes a platform to showcase their talent. The artistes lined up for the show are all based in the UK. They include Aaron Manatsa, Ivy Kombo-Kasi, Farai Muvuti, Kazz Khalif, Ogga Kattalo and the Gentlemen Band, Sharon Rose, Edith WeUtonga and DJ Young Chidzy. Popular businesswoman and socialite, Olinda Chapel, returns as the host while Munashe Chirisa will bring the comic feel. Show organiser, Eddington Munatsi affectionately known as “Edd”, said the second edition will be held at the same venue, Derby in the UK. Rehearsals are in progress ahead of the weekend show. Munatsi was happy with the response from UK-based artistes. “All is set for the second edition of the “Chabvondoka” show. We have noted that some artistes lack exposure during this lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic, we hope we will give them a platform to shine since most shows are being done online. “We have all genres and the show will run under the theme, ‘Showcasing UK-Zimbabwe talent through music and comedy’. I am overwhelmed by how Zimbabwean artistes are accepting our call and we hope we will have another edition in weeks to come,” he said. Munatsi said they want to maximise the time and efforts hence the decision to fuse music and comedy this weekend. The next edition will have theatre and other arts genres, depending on the theme. Munatsi said times were changing and artistes should embrace online shows. “Technology is changing the industry, and artistes should understand how it works as this will develop not them and the industry as well. “Online platforms have dominated and musicians can sell their music online apart from hosting shows to keep in touch with their fans,” he said. Meanwhile, contemporary musician and producer, Farai Muvuti who together with his backing outfit, The Forest Dawn, have been added to the list, are optimistic about the show. Muvuti said fans should expect surprises at the concert. He gained popularity with his band during music festivals held abroad before the lockdown begun and has been away from the music scene, focusing on other projects. Muvuti is expected to perform his latest song, “Shooting Star”. “I have been on a break focusing on my projects. My last performance was at Focus Africa Festival 2018 at RichMix theatre in London. I was happy when the organisers of “Chabvondoka” got in touch about this weekend show. I am ready and have a surprise for my fans,” he said. The first edition saw Tytan, Lamont Chitepo and Mathius Julius, among others, performing.