The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter A HIGH-LEVEL management meeting has just been concluded in his Zimbabwe National Water Authority office in Borrowdale. And, ZIFA Northern Region Soccer League chairman, Martin Kweza, doesn’t afford himself even a minute of rest for he will be rushing to another conference soon. The administrator closes his eyes and briefly takes his mind to Chibuku Stadium in Chitungwiza. It is where, two decades ago, Kweza came agonisingly closer to securing his dream job as a football commentator. But his examiners, Stanley Katsande and Farayi Mungazi felt, he had become so engrossed in imitating veteran commentator, Evans Mambara.  “Growing up in Masvingo, I always wanted to become a football commentator,’’ he told The Saturday Herald. ‘‘I worked hard to get the opportunity but, when the chance came, I let it slip as I had mastered imitating the iconic (Evans) Mambara. “I wouldn’t fault those who interviewed me as they made it clear to me that they were looking for someone who would be his own man, with his own style and flair. In that regard, I was far off the mark and I accepted failure.” But, that episode would change Kweza’s approach to issues, for good. Having been knocked out of a football career by an injury he sustained while turning out for a Division two side, Kweza jumped into administration. He transformed ZINWA FC from the amateur ranks into Division One before the franchise was sold to Harare City. Now, he is trying to fill the big shoes left by the late Willard Manyengavana at the helm of the NRSL. “Manyengavana had become synonymous with the NRSL. You know when you are mandated to fill in a post, left by such an iconic person, you are under pressure to deliver. “But, Manyengavana was such a kind person. I learnt a lot from him and I am implementing a lot, in terms of his vision. “I have fused his ideas with mine and, despite the prevailing lockdown, which has put a stop to football activities, I should say we have covered a lot of ground in terms of branding our league. That failed football commentary audition shaped me. I learnt to become my own man.” In addition to retaining Ruyamuro Holdings as their sponsors, the NRSL have signed contracts with four more sponsors who will come on board when the season commences. Another sponsor has been secured to bankroll a junior tournament. “What I can tell you is that, there are a lot of companies in the country who are willing to sponsor football,’’ he said. “What they just need is good corporate governance and transparency. As a league we make sure we account for every cent they give us. We have signed contracts with four more companies who will join our principal sponsors, Ruyamuro. We are also going to introduce junior leagues from Under-12 to Under-19. We already have about 112 teams in Harare and we are likely to have 300 more teams in Mashonaland East and Mashonaland West as well as Central. “We will have a big youth tournament, when things return to normal, as we have already identified a sponsor for that. We are also still negotiating with another sponsor who will be bankrolling the Northern Region Super Cup.” Kweza said newboys Simba Bhora were leading by example following renovations they have made at their stadium in Shamva. The Chinhoyi Municipality have also made tremendous steps in upgrading Chinhoyi Stadium, the home of Chinhoyi Stars.