The Herald BIMRINGHAM. — Aston Villa manager Dean Smith got so drunk amid the celebrations which followed his club’s Great Escape on Sunday he ended up sleeping in his office at the club’s training ground. Smith and his players, who included Zimbabwe international midfielder, Marvelous Nakamba, partied all night after securing their place in the English Premiership following a 1-1 draw against West Ham at the London Stadium on Sunday. “I’m not great because it was a heavy night,’’ Smith told talkSPORT. “I’m not sure what time I got to bed, but I slept in my office back at the training ground. “I did an Eddie Jones and slipped off so the lads didn’t see me go. “I gave (Jack Grealish) a few shots last night and got him to sign a new five-year contract. It’s not been done yet, it was written in Sambuca, I’m not sure if it was mine or his. “Seriously, that’s a chat for another day. Jack’s a wonderful lad and I’ve got all the time in the world for him and I’m so pleased that he scored the goal that kept us in the Premier League.” Smith is due to sit down with chief executive, Christian Purslow, sporting director Jesus Garcia Pitarch and the club’s billionaire owners Nassef Sawiris and Wes Edens later this week Up for discussion will be Villa’s transfer plan, ahead of the new season which starts in just 46 days. “I’ll sit down in the next few days with the CEO, sporting director and owners. We need to be smart in the market now,’’ Smith said. “I said it after the game (on Sunday), people had questioned the amount we’d spent (£130 million) but we had such a big turnaround, 13 players, and it worked out something like £9.5 million a player and that’s not a lot of money in the Premier League. “I’m really proud of the players and how they’ve adapted to the Premier League eventually. We’ve got to where we wanted to be but now we really have to be smart in the market.” Smith said securing Villa’s Premiership status was better than getting promotion last year. “I feel better than I did after getting us promoted last year in the play-offs, and that’s the honest truth,’’ he said. “It’s been a tough season but a really enjoyable one. “I’ve learned a lot, about myself, about the players. It’s a magnificent achievement, it shouldn’t be overlooked. “Douglas Luiz, who has been outstanding for the last 10 games, walked through the door two days before the Tottenham game (on the opening day). “Unfortunately a lot of people have lost their lives due to a pandemic, my dad included. But we used that period to make sure we were tough, stronger, defensively resolute. “We managed to help continue building the culture, it’s very difficult to build a culture straightaway. “You can see from the players’ reactions at the end, the team spirit that’s been there over the last 10 games. I’m immensely proud of every one of them.” When Villa were thumped 4-0 at Leicester on March 9, Smith wore the look of a man running out of ideas, and time, to turn things around. The subsequent three-month break provided him the latter and he returned refocused and re-energised, with a clear idea of what was going to be required if Villa were to escape trouble. The January signing of Pepe Reina, to replace Heaton, also eventually proved a shrewd move. Zimbabwe cricket star, Sikandar Raza, joined the Villa fans, including Prince William, who congratulated the club for staying in the Premiership. “Many congratulations to @AVFCofficial, and to our own, “Always Smiling,” @Nakamba11 on their performance on the finals day and ensuring their @premierleague for next season,’’ tweeted Raza. “No doubt they will come (back) harder and stronger.’’ And, Nakamba, replied, “thanks (brother).’’ Smith will lead Villa into the 2020/21 season after steering the club to Premier League survival. There had been reports that decision-makers at Villa Park were considering the possibility of replacing Smith in pre-season and Burnley boss Sean Dyche was linked as a potential replacement. After going 10 games without a win, Villa picked up eight points from their final four matches, including wins against Arsenal and Crystal Palace. — BirminghamLive/Express & Star/talkSPORT