The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter To play or not to play? This is the biggest question currently gripping the domestic football scene in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown. The game was halted after Government imposed a lockdown on all public gatherings and contact sport, like football. There have been many questions asked whether the game would go ahead this year after football was classified under the high risk sport codes. Although the football family is keen for resumption of action, the risks of playing the game appear to be higher considering the local transmissions the country has had to deal within the last few weeks. While Government has been giving the greenlight for the low-risk sport codes to resume, football could be among the last to get such a clearance from the authorities because of the huge risks. The Premier Soccer League are still pushing for a September start but this is subject to the game meeting stringent laid-down health guidelines. While some clubs have been pushing for the 2020 season to start, the football authorities still need to assure Government they have put in place satisfactory measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus at the stadia. This could come at a huge cost. The clubs will need to conduct a series of coronavirus tests before they can be given the go-ahead to start training. Their training facilities, which many teams do not have, would need to be disinfected and sanitised. The PSL Medical Committee have since compiled a document, which they will present to the ZIFA board on Thursday. “As indicated, after our meeting with the Medical Committee, we will present our recommendations to the board sometime this week. “At the moment, no resolution has been taken, only the ZIFA board has the mandate to come up with a binding decision,” said ZIFA spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela. The PSL coaches agree they will need to start pre-season all over again after the start of the season was suspended in March. According to CAF’s recommendations, the return to training could take up to four weeks. If they get green light, local clubs will need an estimated US$10 000 every month, for testing alone, . But, considering the financial challenges these clubs face, this may not be feasible. Tests have to be consistent and thorough.