The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
SHE was the youngest player for the Gems at the Netball World Cup last year and the experience gained is something Claris Kwaramba will always cherish. Now, she is studying to be a lawyer. Kwaramba said competing at the global showpiece was an eye-opener for her and the game against New Zealand, eventual winners of the tournament remains one of her best. “Playing against New Zealand was one of my best moments because I got a chance to rub shoulders with one of my role models Maria Tutaia,’’ she said. “That game boosted my confidence, now I believe in myself, in everything that l do. “The experience had a great impact on my netball career. I learnt a lot, I picked a lot of things, for example, the way they defend and attack.” Despite having been to the World Youth Cup, in 2017, in Botswana, Kwaramba, who plays wing defence, admits competing with the senior team last year was a different experience. “Since it was my first time playing at the World Cup I was scared, especially competing against those big teams like Australia,’’ she said. “I feel like I did not give it my all because I was scared. “However, the World Cup experience has had a greater impact on my netball career because it gave me a better picture of netball, boosted my confidence and I no longer get scared of playing against any big team.” Kwaramba said she prays that the sport get the support it deserves locally. Former Pamushana High School student pointed out the importance of having proper facilities in place. “I think it’s every netballer’s wish to have, at least, one indoor court, so that when we compete in other countries it will be normal,’’ she said. “And, also, l think playing a lot of friendlies, and all tournaments, is important. “I think people still look down upon netball. l feel like there is talent in rural areas but those netballers never get a chance to prove themselves.” Kwaramba attained 20 points in her 2018 ‘A’ level exams, and says it was not easy balancing her school work and national team commitments. As she pursues her dream, of becoming a lawyer at the University of Zimbabwe, she says it takes commitment and passion to realise one’s dreams. “It was not easy to balance the two because, at times, l would be in camp while others were at school,’’ she said. “l had sleepless nights trying to cover up and balance the two. But, all l can say is one has to be committed and have passion.’’ Kwaramba has had a promising career, graduating from the Under-21 side, which competed at the World Youth Cup three years ago. “I am also working hard to play for one of the best teams in the world,’’ she said. “I want to be a good, well-known netballer, and to be a respected person in both the netball and the law courts.’’