The Herald Herald Reporter Rubaya and Chatambudza Legal Practitioners have denied misleading the High Court when they successfully applied for bail in that court sitting in Harare in respect of two clients who were arrested for criminal offences in Bulawayo. The two High Court judges were aware of the circumstances of each case, and that the two were appealing against decisions made by Bulawayo magistrates in a lower court. The lawyers were responding to reports that the High Court judges had possibly not known the full story in each case. They note that in both cases, the two clients had been before Bulawayo magistrates, one denied bail and one convicted, and exercised their rights to appeal to a higher court, in both cases the High Court sitting in Harare, and successfully applied for bail pending the trial of one and pending the appeal of the other. Every High Court judge has jurisdiction extending right across Zimbabwe. Norest Ushe, who had been denied bail by a Bulawayo magistrate, appealed to the High Court sitting in Harare, was freed on bail of $5 000. Ushe, a Zimra employee, is being charged with 50 counts of fraud over vehicle imports. The second client, Jefat Chagadama, was convicted and sentenced by a Bulawayo magistrate for theft, but he successfully applied at the High Court in Harare for bail pending his appeal against conviction and sentence. Mr Timon Tabana of Rubaya and Chatambudza Legal Practitioners said Ushe, who was represented by his colleague Mr Admire Rubaya and never misrepresented facts to the High Court, but was granted bail on merit with the court aware that this was an appeal from the decision of a magistrate. “It is clear from the bail application that the High Court, sitting at Harare was informed of where and when the initial bail application had been filed. For the record, Norest Ushe never applied for bail at the Bulawayo High Court . . . “Justice Foroma (sitting in Harare) was aware at all times of what he was dealing with, both in fact and in law,” said Mr Tabana. The lawyers said bail in respect of Ushe was never revoked, an indication that there was no misrepresentation. On Chagadama’s case, the lawyers said Mr Oliver Marwa of Rubaya and Chatambudza legal Practitioners, was not the one who filed the application for bail pending appeal in Harare, but he only stood in for Mr Simango of Nyikadzino and Simango law firm. “Our Mr Marwa stood in for Mr Simango. Jefat Chagadama’s bail order stands and has not been revoked.” In both cases, the lawyers said, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) was competently and adequately represented. “It (NPA) never raised any anomaly. It had no basis of doing so. Indeed the NPA has not proceeded against the bail orders,” said the lawyers.