The Herald Arts Reporter
Sungura star Romeo Gasa and talented dancer Lyn Magodo, aka Lady Storm, have joined forces to keep their fans entertained during the lockdown period. The artistes said they decided to come together to give their fans a number of collaborative releases to unveil a variety of merrymaking options. Gasa has been on top of his game over the past few years and has made a mark as one of the fast-rising youngsters of sungura. He said they decided to have joint effort with Lady Storm after being left out of live online performances that have brought together many artistes from various genres in the country. They have shot a video of a lockdown concert they did together and they believe the production will go a long way in keeping their fans abreast with their productions in this era of Covid-19-induced restrictions. “We worked together at a number of shows before the lockdown and we believe we can keep our fans entertained despite the absence of real live shows. We have done many other projects in this lockdown and I believe our fans will be happy with our productions,” said Gasa. “We have done videos that replicate the live shows that many have been staging at various platforms. Our videos are meant to show that bringing different genres together make it easy to reach out to a wider audience. I do sungura and Lady Storm is pursuing an Afro-fusion style in addition to her exciting dances that have made her a household name.” Lady Storm said she is enjoying the union with Gasa and they will do a number of exciting projects beyond the lockdown. “Coming together in this era when shows are restricted to in-house performances is just a sign of what we want to do as a team. I am known as a dancer, but I am also concentrating on singing. I am happy that Romeo has understood my concept and we will work on this thing together,” said Lady Storm. “There are a number of songs that we are planning together and we will unleash a number of productions as a team. “We will continue with these lockdown collaborations and we want our fans to keep following the productions.” Gasa and Lady Storm said they are doing a studio collaboration to enhance their artistic union. Videos that have been posted on social media featuring the two musicians have become popular during the lockdown when music fans are looking for fresh productions to quench their appetite for live shows that have been put on hold indefinitely. “We have shot a number of lockdown videos that are doing well and we will have a new song to entertain our fans. In the next few days, people will be listening to a unique song that was done by Lady Storm and Romeo Gasa. “It is a lockdown production that people should look up to. We are in a challenging time because of coronavirus, but we will do our best to keep our fans entertained in various possible ways,” said Lady Storm. Lady Storm rose to fame when she featured as Eriza on Jah Prayzah’s “Eriza” video and she has promised to take the level higher on her collaborations with Gasa.