The Herald NEW YORK. — Mike Tyson has revealed he has shed SIX STONE for his comeback fight with Roy Jones Jr after piling it on from booze and cocaine binges. The boxing veterans, who have a combined age of 105, will lock horns in California on September 12 in an eight-round exhibition showdown. The fight, that’s been titled, “Frontline Battle”, will be streamed online on the social media platform Triller, and is expected to attract millions of pay-per-view buys. Now the Baddest Man on the Planet, 54, has opened up on the dramatic body transformation he has undergone. Tyson told TMZ Sports: “At one time I was just 90lbs over weight I was doing cocaine, I was drinking and I said Allah if he can stop me from being this way, I’ll change my whole life. “And eventually, I got married, my life started to change, and I started working out. “My brother in law said, ‘hey listen. I know you don’t want to fight, but would you fight Bob Sapp? Somebody wants to offer you a lot of money to fight him’. I said, ‘get out of here, I told you I don’t want to fight anymore.’ “And then I thought about it in my mind and went ‘ding’ — I said I would fight (Sapp under the marquess of queensberry rules) and for some reason, it went from Bob Sapp to somebody else, and this guy, and the next thing you know, I’m fighting Roy Jones Jr on September 12. “I don’t know how this happened. “I’m just very grateful that I’m not living the life that I was living before. Allah has blessed for me to be able to do this.” He continued: “I’m in great shape, but I’m going to get in better condition. “I just did my four miles today, and I’m going to do my sprints later, and then I’m going to the boxing gym.” When asked if his fight with Jones Jr will have him putting his foot on the gas or on the brake pedal, Tyson said: “Anybody who knows me knows that I don’t know how to put any on pedal, I just know one way of fighting. “That’s just what it is. Now I’m doing it with a lot more enthusiasm because I’m doing it for someone else. “It’s going to be for various charities. Nobody has to ever worry about me getting rich, or getting jealous, or saying I’m doing this for money. I’m not getting anything. “I just feel good doing this because I can.” – The Sun.