The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FORMER Blackpool forward, Collins Kabote, still has the remainder of an apology letter written to him by ex-ZIFA director of administration, Lazarus Mhurushomana, in 1992. Twenty-eight years may have passed but as the 52-year-old still remembers that incident. Kabote had done well to fight for the Soccer Star of the Year gong or, at least, a place on the calendar in a year his Black Mambas beat eventual champions Black Aces in both league matches. “The referees’ committee had cleared all those who eventually made it on the calendar, including my name, but, somehow, Mhurushomana raised a red flag,’’ he said. ‘‘I don’t know why he did that but he said I was not eligible since he claimed I had been red-carded in our away match against Shu-Shine. I didn’t understand his motive, and I am still confused right now. ‘‘I was so disappointed. That season remains my best in my lengthy footballing career and I was going to grace the Soccer Stars’ calendar for the first time. Of course, I managed to grace the calendar in 1994 and 1995 but I still feel I did better in 1992 than in any other year.” He said although the referees had insisted the player red-carded against Shu-Shine was Gilbert Kapuka, Mhurushomana insisted it was Kabote. “Just a day after the selection, Mhurushomana wrote a letter to me apologising over the incident,’’ he said. ‘‘You know, it was like an insult to injury. There is no incident, in my footballing life, that made me consider quitting the game like that one. For all the efforts, which had been put in by the referees for him to understand the actual position, he chose to verify the matter a day after the Soccer Stars had already been selected. Football is full of frustrations but, look, that incident was too much. ‘‘That also explains why, after quitting the game, I never considered venturing into coaching although, being a ZIFA Level One coaching certificate holder, I had a brief stint with Motor Action, a few years after they acquired the Blackpool franchise around 1997.’’ Kabote had wanted to play for Black Rhinos, a team which most of his colleagues around Shawasha Flats in Mbare turned for. The players, who include Kabote’s brother Cosmas, Misheck Mapika, Farai Kahembe, Ian Gorowa, the late pair of Allan “Jah Bhora”  Gwaze and Stewart “Jomo” Kembo, Langton Mutimba, Owen Mutukwa, Richard Sinoya and Godknows Chamwalila all turned for Black Rhinos. But, Kabote had already joined the Zimbabwe Republic Police after completing his Ordinary Level studies at Nyava Secondary School in Bindura. “I had already joined the ZRP and that made it impossible for me to join Black Rhinos,’’ he said. ‘‘I would have really wanted to play for Black Rhinos but, look, I had to play for Black Mambas. After all, when the team changed to Blackpool, we wrote one of the most intriguing pieces in the history of Zimbabwean football when we reached the semi-finals of the CAF Cup of Cup Winners Cup (now Confederation Cup) in 1994. “In that tournament, I scored five goals and I was the third top-scorer of the competition. I really enjoyed it.” Kabote has since retired from the ZRP and runs a car spares venture along Kaguvi Street in Harare. He has hardly set his foot at a football stadium since 2005. “I have stopped attending any local matches. I am a fan of football but just imagine, going to the stadium, and meeting those bouncers at the gates who often humiliate us. I feel it’s not just right and, being a reserved person, I have chosen to stay away from such issues.” He said his heart is now in junior football development and he will be starting his project soon. He said footballers should prepare for life after the game as most of them end up leading miserable lives after they hang up their boots.