The Herald LONDON. — To say this season has been a bizarre one would be a gross understatement. But it hasn’t just been the havoc caused by a global pandemic that marks the campaign out as an anomaly, there are plenty of stats from the action on the pitch that might surprise you. Here, Sportsmail runs through the top 10 weird stats of the season so far ahead of the final smattering of matches. 1 — Liverpool have made more errors leading to a shot – than any team except Aston Villa This is a tough one to get your head around. The runaway champions have been sensational all season with Virgil van Dijk marshalling the best defence in the league. The Reds have only conceded 29 times in total but have made a significant number of mistakes in key areas leading to a shot — 25. Only relegation-threatened Aston Villa are worse in this department with 26. 2 — No English goal-scorer for Wolves all season This is always a classic stat for the English top-flight. Wolves have been enjoying another brilliant campaign under Nuno Espirito Santo but it is his imports who lead the way at Molineux. When you look at the starting line-up, there is a real dearth of Englishmen with Mexican Raul Jimenez leading the way on 17 goals, Portuguese Diogo Jota on seven and then a handful of others chipping in. 3 — Bruno Fernandes scored Manchester United’s first free-kick for more than two years The Portuguese smashed in the fifth for Manchester United in their 5-2 win over Bournemouth earlier this month with a superb free-kick. It was the first free-kick United had scored since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s first game in charge vs Cardiff in December 2018. 4 — Burnley vs Bournemouth goes down in history Burnley’s snoozefest against the Cherries managed the lowest number for shots (5) in a game since data started being collected in the Premier League in 2003/04. In the end, Sean Dyche won’t particularly care as his side’s one shot on target, from James Rodriguez in the 89th minute, went in. 5 — Roberto Firmino’s Anfield goal drought It seems unthinkable that a team as dominant as Liverpool have a striker who, going into last night’s game, yet to score on home turf in the Premier League this term. Firmino finally scored his first league goal, at Anfield this season, last night. He is often lauded for knitting together play and turning provider for Sadio Mane and Mo Salah. 6 — Crystal Palace have not scored more than twice It has been a tough watch for Palace fans at time this season as the ever-pragmatic Roy Hodgson sets his side up to squeeze results out of games. The Eagles have not scored more than twice in any Premier League game this season. 7 — Harry Wilson has scored the most among players with no assists The young Welshman has been impressive at times, on loan from Liverpool at Bournemouth, this season. While Eddie Howe’s side have struggled, Wilson has chipped in with seven Premier League goals to his name. But the 23-year-old is yet to supply an assist. 8 — Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg has most shots without scoring The Southampton midfielder is highly regarded but his profligacy, in front of goal, has been appalling with 46 efforts either saved or off target. 9 — Arsenal have made fewer recoveries than any team except one Every other team in the Premier League bar Newcastle (on 2,067) has recovered possession more often than Arsenal’s 2,100 times, a damning indictment. 10 — Wilfried Zaha has been tackled the most Nobody has been dispossessed more than the winger, who has been tackled 243 times. Bizarrely, the second-most tackled player also plays for Palace: Jordan Ayew, who is miles behind Zaha on 135. — Mailonline.