The Herald LONDON. — The Football Association are set to launch an investigation after giant Wycombe striker, Adebayo Akinfenwa, alleged he was called a “fat water buffalo” on several occasions by a Fleetwood representative on Monday night. Wycombe progressed to the League One play-off final after a 6-3 aggregate victory over Fleetwood. But, the occasion was spoiled for Akinfenwa after learning of a remark he says left him feeling angry, frustrated and dehumanised. Akinfenwa said in a statement published on Twitter: “Monday night was one of the highlights of my career with Wycombe so far as we secured our place in the League One play-off final at Wembley. “However, what should have been an evening of joy and excitement quickly turned into one of anger and frustration. Wycombe said on Twitter that they “fully stand by (their) players and supports all campaigns to end discrimination” but would make no further comment on the matter. An FA spokesperson said: “We’ve been made aware of the allegation and we’ll be investigating it further.” Akinfenwa, 38, has been with the Chairboys for the last four years, and counts Swansea, Northampton and AFC Wimbledon as his former clubs. Amid the Black Lives Matter movement, he added his voice to calls for more to be done to tackle racism. His statement added: “Regardless of whether or not there was deliberate racial intent by using that language and irrespective of the context in which it was used, if we are to make real and long standing change then we must strive to educate each other about these issues. “We must work together to ensure those who have not and do not face racial prejudice understand that what may appear to them to be a throwaway remark can have such a big and hurtful impact. Wycombe, who progressed to the final 6-3 on aggregate after Monday’s 2-2 draw at their Adams Park ground, offered the 38-year-old forward their support. The investigation comes after Akinfenwa — who was recently fined for wearing a Liverpool shirt to training — revealed the alleged abuse. “A Water Buffalo is a dark animal and as a black man I believe that you have dehumanised me by associating me with a dark animal as this was said in a derogatory manner.” Akinfenwa went on to say he has been racially abused throughout his career. He added: “Throughout my life I have had to deal with many forms of racial abuse, both overt racism as well as covert racism. “As a footballer, I have experienced the same throughout my career, dating back to when I suffered severe and widespread racism playing in Lithuania. “I have always vowed to stand up and have a voice when it comes to racism, believing that education is ultimately the key to a future without racial discrimination. I feel passionately around raising this because we as a sport and as society must wake up. We must do more. “We must educate ourselves and understand the potential repercussions of using such language and be aware of the hurt it can cause. “The bigger issue to me would be the lack of understanding as to why calling me this term would not be hurtful to me as black man, and this must change.” — Express and Star/The Sun.