The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo IT is true when they say that the apple does not fall far from the tree. United States-based popular  teen gospel musician, Tinashe Chivaviro, has a dream. He wishes to be better than his father. Chivaviro, who is basking in glory following the recent release of his debut six-track album, “Musavasiye” in Texas, United States, says he wishes to be better than his father. Songs on Tinashe’s album include “Nguva dzaMwari”, “Musavasiye”, “Batanai Maoko” “Today We Start”, which features his sister, Munashe, “Chokwadi Zita raJesu” (A hymn by Mai Chivaviro) and “Hakuna Anoramba”, a single by Reverend Togarirepi Chivaviro featuring Blessing Shumba. Chivaviro, who is son to award-winning gospel musician Reverend Togarirepi Chivaviro, says he chose music because he grew up in a family of music and it has been in his blood. “I have a passion for music. I have been doing it ever since I was a child and it always makes me feel good. “I am following my father’s footsteps, but I am paving my own way and I aim to be better, in fact, the best. I want to surpass that level. I want to be multi-instrumentalist playing everything and being able to dance,” he says. The 16-year-old says he has learnt a lot about himself, especially during the lockdown era and misses school. “The US has been good. I am busy with my online tuition but I miss attending school physically. My educational background is interesting. So far I have learnt in South Africa after we relocated from Zimbabwe last year. We returned to Zimbabwe and I was a Form Three student earlier this year at Waddilove High School, where I wrote three songs, which are on the album. “Now we are based in the United States and it is tricky trying to adapt to the environment. I have learnt a lot about myself and I am happy that I have discovered myself before anyone else. “So far under the Covid-19 situation, my dad has even forced me to focus on myself, practising and writing songs,” he says. Asked if he is going to venture into another music genre since his father was more into gospel, Chivaviro says he will be in gospel music for life. “After discovering I can sing and having my own three songs, I am not going to change the gospel genre, not that I am being forced but I love it! “I see it as the best way to talk to God and spread the word of God. I am not ever going to change the genre. We should be patient about what God is doing in our lives,” he says. His role model is his father and prophet Emmanuel Makandiwa. “Both men played a pivotal role not only in my career, but in my life in general. They encourage me always to do the best and never to give up.” If he was not into music, he would probably be a business person. “I know I am very young, but I want to be a businessman too. It has been on my bucket list though as I love a lot of travelling. After lockdown the first thing I am going to do is to go back to school and work harder than last term,” he adds.