The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Davis Cup team member, Benjamin Lock, says the postponement of the Davis Cup World Group II tie against China was a blow for him. The two friendly countries were scheduled to meet in September. China are ranked 39 and Zimbabwe are on number 62. “Davis Cup is the highest level of tennis in Zimbabwe and everyone was anticipating an epic match with China,’’ said Lock. “With no live sport to watch, and no local sporting events either, I’m sure that this Davis Cup tie would have been welcomed by the country and the Ministry of Sports. “The ATP Tour and ITF Tour are starting in August, a lot of tournaments are being organised and are following the strict medical procedures put in place by the ATP/ITF to stop the spread of Covid-19 and keep the players, staff, fans in a safe and controlled environment. “This tie only hosts a maximum of four players from each country and so this should make it easy to control the environment and keep everyone safe.’’ Lock said he had been preparing for the showdown. “I have been training every single day with my brother Courtney, since the postponement of the Tour in March, at private facilities. “I disagree with comments from Tennis Zimbabwe about our lack of playing fitness. “We are in the best physical shape of our lives and are playing some of our best tennis as well. “We were very excited to play the tie and this tie is what has been motivating us during this lockdown,” Lock said. The Davis Cup team member expressed concern over lack of communication and support during this difficult period. “For financial reasons, Davis Cup is the biggest source of revenue for Tennis Zimbabwe so I wouldn’t understand why they would welcome a postponement,’’ he said. “During this lockdown I have not been contacted by the executive board despite my efforts to reach out to them. “Covid-19 has affected so many people in Zimbabwe and many are fighting the day-to-day struggle. “A pandemic year is unprecedented and no one can prepare for what we have faced and for what is to come. “But, this doesn’t mean that Zimbabwe’s top players should be left alone without communication, support, and unable to support themselves with no revenue-generating opportunities. “Other national associations around the world provided financial support for their players during this time, why should Zimbabwe be any different?” said Lock.