The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Following the launch of the Covid-19 Relief Fund last week by the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation courtesy of President Mnangagwa, the Government yesterday assisted veteran actress Jesesi Mungoshi with groceries. Jesesi received groceries worth $7 000, which included cooking oil, sugar, rice, maize-meal, cordial drinks and salt, among others during a courtesy visit by the Acting Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Professor Paul Mavima, his deputy Tino Machakaire and National Arts Council of Zimbabwe director Nicholas Moyo among other dignitaries. Speaking at the handover ceremony, Prof Mavima said they started the programme to assist artists, especially during these hard times of Covid-19-induced lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic. “Mai Jesesi is one of our icons in our local movies. We are here at the residence, and both Jesesi and her late husband Charles are legends. “Last week we launched a Covid-19 Relief Fund programme for local artists. This is also part of the initiative and we appreciate the work done by this artists. “In order for us to increase the visibility of this programme, we decided to start and choose our legends to emphasise the work that we are doing in this time of Covid-19. “We are not saying that she is struggling or poor, but we are saying as a symbol of what the Government is doing for our artists, we came up with this donation,” he said. Minister Mavima said Zimbabweans should appreciate the work done by artistes as they put the country on the global map. “We want our children to have hope, and be encouraged to do such initiatives. If they have a talent they should not fear, but do it whole-heartedly. The late Charles Mungoshi was a renowned and successful writer, and we are aware also of Jesesi’s latest project called “Rujeko,” which aims to empower the girl child to have hope, and educate society about the disadvantages and discrimination of the girl child. We are happy and honoured to have you as our legend,” he added. He said they are yet to identify more legends and continue with the initiative. Jesesi who stars in the popular local movie “Cook-Off”, which is currently showing on NetFlix thanked the ministry for such an initiative and admitted that these are hard times. “In 1985 that is when I became a renowned actress, and we have been chasing and protecting the name Mungoshi. “I am really grateful for what you did to us and we need projects implemented and aided by the Government, which makes us grow the industry. “There are youths who chase me because I am a role model to them and sometimes it is difficult for me since I may not have what they want at that time. But I only give them my support,” she said. The “Neria” hit maker said she was supposed to sign a deal with some Nigerian producers following her selection to a leading role in an international movie, but the deal was affected by Covid-19. “I was supposed to sign a contract with some Nigerian film producers who were supposed to have come in March for an international movie deal, but it could not happen because of the coronavirus pandemic, which has hit the world. “I made a movie in 2015, which is still work in progress because of funds and support. In 2008 I lobbied for the Government to chip in to assist artistes because sometimes we feel let down. “We should have a commissioning office and I am happy with this Covid-19 Relief Fund, which will give artists something for a start,” she said.