The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA are today set to make crucial decisions that will have a huge impact on the fate of domestic football. The game has been caught up in uncertainty this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. The ZIFA and PSL Medical Committee, tasked with the duty to chat the way forward towards the safe return of football, are today set to make a presentation to the ZIFA Competitions committee. “Right now, I cannot say exactly what will happen. That can only be known after the meeting between the Medical Committee and ZIFA Competitions,’’ said ZIFA boss, Felton Kamambo. “From there we will see if we can make schedules. “Of course, we have to be led by the CAF guidelines and we need to make sure that football complies with all the requirements before we start.” The PSL had provisionally set August/September for a possible start of their programme. However, the medical committee chaired by renowned medical doctor, Edward Chagonda, on Thursday met PSL chief executive, Kenny Ndebele, and delivered a report which emphasised strict adherence to the health guidelines as proposed by Government, FIFA, CAF and World Health Organisation. Chagonda revealed that his committee, recommended PCR tests which cost $65 per test kit. This would mean that a PSL club with 30 players and about 10 officials would need roughly USD$2 600 per week or US$10 400 per month. An official from a local club yesterday pleaded with the football authorities to look at various options to make sure the 2020 season goes ahead. “PSL players and officials are fully ensured under their deal with Fidelity Life. The clubs have medical aid which can be used to have all the players tested as required under the CAF guidelines. “I also think the prices quoted by the PSL medical Committee are from private practitioners. “Government agencies are conducting these tests at far cheaper rates. Why don’t we talk to Government and other stakeholders to facilitate the testing and lessen the burden on clubs?” he said. The ZIFA board meeting will also deliberate on how the Covid-19 relief package would be shared among their affiliates as they seek to cushion them following a cash injection of US$1.5 million from FIFA. On Monday the association received a further US$300 000 from CAF.