The Herald Herald Reporter
With Covid-19 cases still spiking both locally and abroad, companies continue to play their part in fighting the pandemic. Local technology-focused firm, Tech24 Group has pledged to provide free sanitization of contact centres around the country with its ozone headset sanitizing cabinet. Contact centres are an essential service. Earlier in the year telecommunications firms Liquid Telecom Zimbabwe, NetOne and TelOne in partnership with Government established Covid-19 toll-free ‘2023’. But contact centres have a greater risk of exposure for employees due to the tight spaces, shared equipment, and people moving for shifts. Tech24 is currently the exclusive distributor of the ozone sanitizing cabinet in Zimbabwe. Said the company’s business unit manager for hardware Fadzai Masoso: “We held an online demo session on June 23 and we had an overwhelming response with representatives from over 15 contact centres that joined the session across the country. “We have made it our mandate to spread awareness on contact centre headset hygiene and the consequences of not practicing it. “It is key to note that ideally, headsets should not be shared under any circumstances as this is very unhygienic. However should headsets be shared they must definitely be ozone sterilized between users. “In light of this, we have decided to offer one free sanitizing session to contact centres across the country.” The company has said at least 36 contact centres including the Covid-19 Response Call Centre are set to benefit. Call centres play a key role in pandemic planning as they tend to be the first line of defense for medical centres that are dealing with a pandemic. Sanitization of these workspaces will ensure that they continue to play this essential function. Tech24 marketing and business development manager Lydia Matengambiri said the ozone sanitization cabinet will ensure safer workspaces. “Our cabinets sterilize up to 30 headsets in a 15-minute cycle and a single ozone cabinet can sterilize up to 2000 headsets per month achieving a 99 percent sterile result. “This is key especially in such times as it enables contact centres to create healthy working environments. “Sanitizing headsets reducing cross-infection between employees. The average call centre headset contains millions of bacteria and germs therefore it is crucial now more than ever for companies to use new technologies to protect the health and wellness of their employees,” she said. “The sanitizing cabinet can also be used to sanitize cellphones and telephones among other equipment but most critically employers should provide sufficient equipment to prevent sharing of any kind.”