The Herald Walter Nyamukondiwa Kariba Bureau
FIVE suspected armed robbers who were part of a 12-member gang arrested this week for an early morning raid at Chidamoyo Mission Hospital in Hurungwe appeared before a Karoi magistrate for initial remand on Friday. Tozivepi Kunyangamara (42), Casten Kamuchira (38), Clinton Mazwimaviri (52), Dzingai Gariyawo, also known as Stuwart Kasenda (36) and Tawanda Magaya appeared before Mr Mandla Ndlovu. They were remanded in custody to 23 July and advised to apply for bail at the High Court, as they were facing a serious offence. The five were part of a 12-man gang that was arrested in Chinhoyi after executing an early morning heist at Chidamayo Mission Hospital on Tuesday last week. Police managed to recover an assortment of weapons, including two fully- loaded rifles, two pistols, a 10-pound hammer, bolt cutter and a pair of pliers. Allegations before the court are that the five went to Chidamoyo Hospital at around 4am on Tuesday last week in a blue Range Rover where they used a pair of pliers to cut open the fence at the home of the hospital’s sister-in-charge Kathleen McCathy. They assaulted a security guard before breaking the main door using a hammer to gain entry and demanded cash in US dollars and keys to the hospital administration offices which she indicated were with the administrator. One of them took an i-Phone which was later recovered at the roadblock when the gang was arrested. They commandeered Ms McCathy to her vehicle parked outside so that she could take them to the administrator’s house, with one of them driving. One of them armed with the 10-pound hammer broke the lock at the main door before ransacking the office. They took a metal cabinet containing two small safe boxes with cash, airtime and fuel coupons before loading them into Ms McCathy’s waiting car and bundled her and two guards. The gang drove for about a kilometre before meeting their getaway car where they transferred the stolen property and drove towards Magunje Growth Point. After driving for about 10km, they allegedly stopped the car and took the metal box into a nearby bush where they used the hammer to open it. They took cash and other valuables before burning the papers and receipts that were kept in the box. A report was made to the police who reacted swiftly and managed to intercept and arrest the five together with seven other accused persons on their way to Harare in Chinhoyi.