The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Aquatic Union president, Mary Kloppers, says they face financial limitations to fully ensure they follow all the guidelines by the Government related to Covid-19 prevention. These include testing of all their members. “Unfortunately, we do not have funds to permit such testing,’’ she said. “Currently, we are working on competition guidelines, however, we do not expect to start competing any time soon. “Our requirements for officials only is more than 30 people, at any one time and,  until restriction on numbers are lifted, we cannot consider holding competitions. “Our competitions usually begin in September, so we are not at a disadvantage yet. “All regional and continental competitions have been suspended for the rest of the year.’’ Although there won’t be competition, any time soon, clubs were now operating within the agreed guidelines. Tennis is also back, with players training at various clubs, and Tennis Zimbabwe are happy with the response from their members in terms of adhering to the guidelines. TZ president, Biggie Magarira, said the financial requirements involved in testing players was the stumbling block but they have stuck to the guidelines from the Government and their international federation. Triathlon Zimbabwe vice-president, Pamela Fulton, said with their season, usually taking off in September, they have no yet discussed the possibility of having tests for their athletes and officials. “We only start our season in September, so we haven’t discussed that. We have gone through the whole procedure and reassessing our venues for the safety of athletes. “Yes, we have done a lot of work, when we get to that time, I guess, we will have to discuss that. “A lot could change between now and September, normally our season starts in September but, due to Covid-19, we might start in October, we will be assessing that,” said Fulton. National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president, Tendai Tagara, pointed out it would be expensive for them to conduct the tests.