The Herald Herald Reporter TWO suspected timber poachers died while another one was seriously injured after they were shot by police officers during clashes at Tarkka Forest in Chimanimani yesterday. The three were part of a group of about 30 people that had clashed with the police in the forest. A police officer was also injured after being attacked during the clashes. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incident and said investigations were still in progress. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police is investigating an unfortunate shooting incident, which occurred today (yesterday) at Tarkka Forest, Chimanimani where two people died and one was injured when timber poachers clashed with police officers. “The poachers had left a tractor and trailer when Zimbabwe Republic Police deployed members on the 1st of July 2020 and regrouped on 3rd July 2020 before attacking police officers with a police sergeant being trampled on by 30 suspects before other police officers reacted,” he said. He said warning shots were fired, but the suspects ignored until the three were shot and taken to Rusitu Mission Hospital. “Two suspects died on admission while the other one is currently admitted at the same institution. Police are conducting comprehensive inquiries into this regrettable incident and urge members of the public to observe the law at all times,” Asst-Comm Nyathi said. The incident comes in the wake of the launch of “Operation Huni Dzabvepi-Inkuni Zivela Ngaphi” by the Environmental Management Agency (EMA), police and the Forestry Commission, targeting illegal tree fellers and unauthorised firewood sellers last Thursday. Those caught on the wrong side of the law will be fined up to $14 500 or jailed for two years. The two weeks’ national blitz was launched in Mbare, Harare, on Thursday and has seen 52 people being arrested to date. Of the 52, 43 were fined while the other nine are expected to appear in court for contravening the Forestry Act and the Environment Management Act. “The operation is targeting suspects who are wantonly cutting down trees, carrying firewood without permits, those found in unlawful possession of charcoal and selling firewood without the requisite permits,” Asst-Comm Nyathi said. He urged the public to comply with the law to curtail the increase in the cutting down of trees countrywide. People cutting down trees for commercial purposes or selling firewood need authority from the Forestry Commission. Residents can still cut trees on their premises and may burn the timber for domestic use, but cannot sell the wood without permission. On Thursday, Forestry Commission operations manager Mr Lewis Radzire said the operation was targeting hotspots of wood trading. There is rampant charcoal production mainly in Muzarabani and partly from Mhondoro-Ngezi. For one to produce a tonne of charcoal, they would need 10 tonnes of firewood. Highways have also seen a strong presence of firewood sellers, leaving massive deforestation. The Forestry Commission is conducting awareness campaigns to ensure people minimise the wanton cutting down of trees.