The Herald Fox
A group of scientists in Russia have been running an experiment to domesticate foxes: They’ve been breeding the friendly ones together. As a result, they have a lot of cute, legitimately pet foxes who actually want human companionship. They’ll run you quite a pretty penny, though (around $9,000). Capuchin monkey As seen on ‘Friends’, people sometimes keep capuchin monkeys as pets or even as substitute children. They’re cute, small, and intelligent, but aren’t the best animals for your home. First off, primates (aka monkeys and apes) can carry diseases that they can transmit to people through bites or scratches. Hyena A couple in South Africa decided to keep a male hyena, Odi, as a pet. According to them, his mother abandoned him shortly after giving birth, so they took him in. While he’s very aggressive toward strangers, he seems to have a good time with his owners, according to them. In Florida, a man purchased a hyena (Jake) and raised him in his apartment for a while. But he had behavioural issues, like allegedly running into walls, so he gave him to a wildlife sanctuary. Jake was taken from his mother at a young age and never grew up with a hyena family. Tiger Tragically, there are more pet tigers in the U S  than there are wild tigers; they’re endangered, with only around 3 000 left in the wild. Most tiger owners are wealthy and set up an enclosure on their land. Some tigers are kept as roadside attractions in pseudo-zoos. Cheetah Opera singer Charlene Chapman had a private zoo, which included a kinkajou, monkey, and a cheetah named Flossie. Chapman and Flossie even slept in the same bed together. However, the pet cheetah trade (which is growing in popularity in the Middle East) is hurting wild cheetahs. Crocodile In Australia’s Northern Territories, about 100 people have permits to keep pet crocodiles (freshwater and saltwater). They are kept in enclosures in the backyard, which must follow government regulations to keep both the animal and the people safe and healthy. Polar bear Polar bears are the largest land predators currently alive on earth, and yet, there is guy who keeps one as a pet. He trains animals for movies and purchased the bear as a cub to train for a movie. She now lives in a large fenced-in area with a pool on his land. She licks his face and wrestles with him, but he has to keep in mind that she is still a wild, dangerous animal. To train her, he gives her snacks of salmon, making sure to keep an eye on her behaviour for signs of displeasure. But he says it takes years of being around a polar bear to really develop an understanding of when things could turn sour. — www. Science101.com