The Herald Arts Reporter
Jah Prayzah will celebrate his birthday in style on Saturday when he shares the stage with Ammara Brown, King 98 and Tammy Moyo in an online concert. The Uzumba-bred singer turns 33 on Saturday and he is set to have a party with fellow musicians in a virtual concert that will be screened on ZBCTV. Dubbed “Lockdown Birthday Celebrations” the event is set to run from 9pm to 11 pm and all artistes set to take part have promised an exciting event. Jah Prayzah’s manager Keen Mushapaidze said they have put in place a good programme and there will be various surprises on the night. “We are happy to be celebrating with fellow musicians and it is a great thing that they have agreed to come on board for the party,” said Mushapaidze. “It will not be a show, but a party to celebrate Jah Prayzah’s 33rd birthday. We have done a number of birthday parties before and this one will be different because it is coming at a time when he cannot physically meet with his fans. It will be a different event and we promise a memorable occasion,” said Mushapaidze. “People should be prepared for surprises that we have set for the night. So far we can simply say that all is in place for a great event. We want to thank other musicians that have agreed to be part of this occasion. Our fans should join us for the good celebrations. They have always been excellent followers of such parties. The difference is that they will have to do it online this time because of the Covid-19 pandemic.” Ammara said the event will be a time to revisit her collaboration with Jah Prayzah titled “Kure Kure” and the day will bring a special reunion occasion. “It has been a long time since we did the collaboration on stage. It is a special song that I perform with him and we are working towards the day. “Kure Kure” is still a popular song, but we have not been able to perform it on many occasions. We want music lovers to enjoy the day and we know Jah Prayzah is likely to have a memorable event,” said Ammara. King 98 says he wishes Jah Prayzah a good birthday celebration and he will do his best to support him on the day. “I have worked with jah Prayzah at a number of shows and I want to wish him the best at the upcoming celebrations. I am excited to be part of the event and I will do my best to support him so that we have a good show. Jah Prayzah is my brother and I look up to him for inspiration and guidance. This will be an event to be done for a good cause and we expect it to be memorable,” said King 98.