The Herald Albert Marufu in LONDON, England
WARRIORS defender Alec Mudimu, was on target as his Moldovan Premier League side Sherriff Triaspol dispatched bottom-placed Codru Lozova by half-a-dozen-goals at home on Saturday. Mudimu, whose side have won all their opening three games since the start of the Moldovan top-flight league, scored the team’s fourth goal in the 40th minute. Sherriff Triaspol’s other goals came from double-scorer Frank Costaneda, William Parra, Andriy Bliznichenko and Peter Wilson.  Mudimu, who was on the bench for the first match of the season, has seen regular game time of late and is satisfied with his progress. He was fielded for 45 minutes in the second game before playing the full game in the third on Saturday. “It has been over seven months since we stopped playing competitive football, so I am working on getting back to full fitness,’’ he said. “Obviously, it brings a great feeling, scoring for your team and helping them win a match. I am happy with my progress so far. “The team has played three games (since the restart). I was on the bench on the first game and played 45 minutes in the second game. “I played 90 minutes in the latest game so that shows progress. I will continue working hard in training. “I am very excited to be playing for a club that plays Champions League football every year.’’ Mudimu revealed he was settling down well in the Eastern European country and has already started lessons for the Russian language. “There are a few English-speaking players in the team, and this has helped me settle down,’’ he said. “I have also been learning Shona and, hopefully, I will have improved by the time I go back to Zimbabwe.’’ Chamu Musanhu, who is one of Mudimu’s intermediaries, told The Herald that he is happy that the defender is settling at his new base. “He is still young and must remain focused. It has not been easy for him as he hasn’t had proper training in over seven months,’’ said Musanhu. “He was on the bench in the club’s first game, played 45 minutes in the second game and 90 minutes in the latest match and this is a good sign.’’