The Herald Bernard Muchemwa in SYDNEY, Australia KEITH Elijah, the son of Arcadia United legend Cornelius Elijah, is following his father’s footsteps by developing budding players here. He owns the International Football Academy in Sydney which has links with English Premiership club West Ham. He comes from a strong football background as his father set the Zimbabwe football scene alight in the ‘60s and ‘70s. “My football career started as a child, watching my father’s team in the First Division,’’ he said. “They were known as Screentone. “Dad was very well known as the Arcadian legend of the 1968 Dream Team, alongside a family member known as Hedley Layton. “I was then called to play in the youth league before being called to Arcadia United and was given my first team debut by Carlos Max, at the age of 18, in the then NPSL. “I then went on to join DT Africa, which was the youthful side of Wieslaw Grabowski, who was then Zimbabwe national team coach. “We all gained knowledge of the game as we were constantly playing friendly matches with the national team. “We were given the opportunity to test and prove ourselves with the best players in the country. “I then went on to play for Motor Action’s reserve team, under head coach Rhaman Gumbo, before heading off to an opportunity abroad.’’ Injuries then ended his playing career. “I was forced to step aside from the playing field and realised that my time was now finished as a player,’’ he said. “I then took up a challenge to start an academy, with my wife in Australia, and give back what I had learnt from the greatest players and coaches I have come across. “We got our partnership with Bolton Wanderers, we then moved on further and managed to secure a contract with English Premier League side West Ham United. “We spent many years together and we are still currently involved with them. We have learnt a great deal of top-flight football and I have been offered an opportunity to get my first coaching diploma at the EPL club. “We were privileged enough to visit most of the world’s best academies in the world such as Barcelona, Real Madrid, Benfica, Man United, Man City, Liverpool and West Ham to name a few. “I managed to complete my German B licence in Berlin and I am looking forward to furthering my education.’’