The Herald Delony Mukarati Midlands State University “Dressed to kill” has become a popular slogan in universities, polytechnics and colleges. This condition has affected female students mostly, in the quest of looking “hot”. It has become a dream of every female student to look “really cool and fashionable”. This craving has led to a phenomenon called “slay queens”. In actual fact, a “slay queen” is a female person who wants to amaze everyone with how classy they are into “cool stuff and after fame”. She will not miss the latest fashion trends and changes hairstyles all the time. From this definition of a “slay queen”, many girls are in a dilemma because they want to become “zvisleyeso”. Some resort to all extreme acts in order to find cash to buy expensive clothes, flashy cellphones with real cameras and change hairstyles every now and then. Their reality is that back home they are something completely opposite. Social media has played a dramatic role in moulding this new breed of ladies on campus. Many celebrities have become their role models in terms of fashion. This quest has been the driving force for these girls to find “blessers” — married men who fund their lifestyles in transactional relations. Girls have fallen into this situation because they want to run away from being seen as somewhat backward and with strong rural background (SRB). In the end their lives become ones full of regret. “Dressing to kill” is widespread in tertiary education institutions. This form of dress is characterized by dressing seductively — see-throughs, cleavages, short dresses which end almost where they start — with the intention of looking “hot”, “sexy” or “classy”. In moments of weakness, the possibility of some male lecturers falling prey to such seductive dressing is higher and results in sexual favours between lecturer and student. It becomes a hindrance to quality education because instead of “teaching it becomes cheating”. The most saddening part of this is that most of these girls are from villages whose parents sacrifice so much in order to send their children to school, colleges and universities. My advice to girls who are in tertiary education and to those who will come after them is: what you do today will determine your tomorrow. So make your choices wisely because all that glitters is not gold. Shalom Chinyama Midlands State University If not managed well, or without enough resources life on campus can prove to be quite difficult for many girls as their health can be at stake. Good sanitation guarantees a good and hygienic environment, especially when the health of fellow women and girls is given special attention. There are many who are doing much to help girls, especially the most vulnerable on campus to maintain good hygiene. The issue of focusing on women’s health more in particular is because it is a matter of trying to avail the same social freedom to them as men and boys. The Sociology Society is one of the few societies that focus on the well -being of everyone in society and this time their main concern was on the girls within the Midlands State University community, who are less privileged and cannot afford to buy themselves sanitary pads. This proved to be a great help given the current situation that the nation finds itself in because affording these essentials is in some way a burden as not everyone can afford them. The Sociology Society held a campaign under the title “#Mwanasikana  Inthombenhle I care” during which they went about giving the vulnerable girls on campus sanitary wear. This was a way of ensuring that just as the boys have social freedom, girls deserve the same as well. Dominic Takudzwa Manenji, a co-founder of the Sociology  Society at the Midlands State University, explained that they realised the economic situation was having a negative impact on the girl-child, given that she needs extra resources compared to the boy-child because of their biological mechanisms. The situation has been difficult for students on campus but as a community, the Sociology Society strives to make sure that some of, if not all, the underprivileged students are given a helping hand. After researching, they found out that most girls had resorted to unhygienic ways of managing during their menstrual periods. These measures tended to be harmful to the students but because their financial condition does not enable them to afford the appropriate means they have no choice. In other words, it is a double blow for the girls because while they are using unhealthy measures they are also damaging their own bodies. This is not only harmful to girls but is a condition that affects the whole society since the health of everyone is at risk if women do not take proper care of themselves. The campaign was a success because of the huge response which was in cash and kind from both the public and private sectors. The media played a significant role in marketing and publicizing the campaign. The Sociology Society pleaded with the Government and private sector players to intervene in addressing the issue of the need for sanitary wear to be given for free.  This would not only improve the health of the girl-child but will also improve the health of the whole society. Nobuhle C Nleya Midlands State University The idea of going to university and returning home after a specific duration, having attained a degree is what most hope for. In most instances, however, the degree expected is not the one received. The most common of situations or positions that have been created by students who have been sent or would have gone willingly to tertiary institutions have strained relations between their guardians/parents due to the end result that most students bring home. This being because of young love relationships that are created at these institutions with the belief that in order for the relationships to be cemented the relationship must be founded mostly on having sexual intercourse. The thrill and excitement derived from these engagements during which student couples decide not to attend lectures but instead “spend time together” in private are circumstances that have left most female students pregnant while male students have become fathers. The mature students who have been caught up in this situation have handled this in a more civilised way. Some have paid roora/lobola for their girlfriends/wives and mothers to their unborn children while some took the common route of purchasing morning after pills or traditional methods of aborting the pregnancies. Being a father or mother at an age where one is still expected to purchase their own belongings, learn survival skills, cook properly and still attain a degree or diploma is not the easiest of situations to be caught up in. It is mostly dreams, aspirations and businesses that go down the drain when one is forced to become a parent while one is still a university student. Considering the increase in the price of diapers and food, one truly can and should give much thought as to how upkeep will be realised by the student who is already a parent, the child, and the partner, while the university will still require its fees.