The Herald MANCHESTER. — Ole Gunnar Solskjaer urged his Manchester United stars to seize a “fantastic opportunity” to qualify for the Champions League football. Mason Greenwood rescued a 1-1 draw against West Ham on Wednesday night. Solskjaer’s side fell behind to Michail Antonio’s penalty in the first half at Old Trafford. But teenage forward Greenwood struck after the interval to lift United into third place in the Premier League. They are ahead of fourth placed Chelsea on goal difference after the Blues lost 5-3 at champions Liverpool. No teenager has ever scored more goals in a single season in all competitions for United than Greenwood, whose 17th of the season moved him level with George Best, Brian Kidd and Wayne Rooney. “He’s bailed us out a few times and he’s done it again,” Solskjaer said. “He’s been absolutely top class ever since we gave him an opportunity. “He trusts himself that his talent, his qualities, attributes, they actually work at the highest level.” United will finish in the top four if they draw or win in their decisive showdown with fifth placed Leicester on Sunday. United are one point ahead of Leicester going into their last game of the season at the King Power Stadium. “When we started after the lockdown, we had to go for it. We had to go for goal difference, we had to go for points,” Solskjaer said. “The effort has been fantastic and the results have been fantastic. “Going into half-time we knew that wasn’t the result we wanted. But you can’t expect to turn teams over like we needed to have a different scenario for Sunday. “We’ve given ourselves a fantastic opportunity and a great starting point for Sunday.” Solskjaer’s team were well below their best against West Ham, but they are now unbeaten in 13 league matches and will complete an impressive surge into the Champions League if they emerge unscathed at Leicester. They can also qualify for Europe’s elite club competition if they win the Europa League in August. Solskjaer will have been relieved there were no costly mistakes from David De Gea after the United keeper retained his place. The Spaniard made two embarrassing errors that led to goals in United’s 3-1 FA Cup semi-final defeat against Chelsea on Sunday. West Ham’s point ensured they avoided relegation.— AFP.