The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 As temperatures sometimes drop unexpectedly, it is advisable to always go out with a scarf on standby. Who knew that July would record such low temperatures? Well, winter does not mean the death of fashion like fashionistas says. With just a few modifications and additions, you will be trendy in winter fashion until summer which is some weeks away. The popular Carrick Polo and Fashion Gala used to be held in July at Bushman Rock and it has been put on hold this year. However, our neighbour South Africa is not stopping in fashion strides as they announced that the Vodacom Durban July is set to take place digitally on July 25. Although fashionistas will not get to fill the grandstands and sit in VIP marquees at this year’s Vodacom Durban July due to most facets of the entertainment industry still on hold, they can still experience the day of fashion extravaganza from the comfort of their own homes. Vodacom Durban July’s communications and media relations officer Dave Macleod has said the social and fashion elements will be played out on the Vodacom Durban July website and social media channels and the full programme of horse races will take place on the track and will be televised on DSTV and Tellytrack. “We have secured a very experienced panel of top fashion designers to contribute to the live streaming show and VDJ fans will be asked to submit photos and videos of the outfit they would have worn to the big race day and these will be scrutinised and commented on by our expert panel”. “Everyone wants their outfit to be seen on Vodacom Durban July day. This year we are using technology and creativity to make that possible.” Fashionistas will still get to show off their amazing VDJ fashion creations, while at home and also making an appearance on the live stream show. “We envisage people hosting their own Vodacom Durban July functions within their homes on Saturday 25 July. They will be asked to send us images and video of their functions as comments and posts to the Vodacom Durban July Facebook page, Twitter and Instagram accounts. Fans will be able to comment on each of the images as they are shown on the live stream show, making it a truly interactive experience” said Macleod. Kudos to you, hopefully locally we will follow suit. This week’s focus is on the women. I know it can be easy to fall into a routine of dark colours, heavy sweaters, and layers of thick clothing until summer, but winter is no excuse to keep your fashion wrapped up in hibernation mode or suffer the cold for the sake of fashion. Here are quick don’ts of fashion for women during this winter: ◆ Do not stick to all black and brighten up your look. During the winter, it is common to keep your colour choices on the darker side. But do not let the grey days keep you from creating some sunshine in your wardrobe. Try introducing a few winter colours such as emerald green, charcoal grey, and deep red to your wardrobe with a brightly coloured accent such as a bag, tights or boots. This will brighten up your outfit while still keeping within the colour scheme of the season. ◆ Do not forget those necessary staple pieces. Every season calls for a few staple items that will be the foundation of your wardrobe. Choose a few classic items you can use for a multitude of outfits all season that will be appropriate for a variety of occasions. As mentioned, pick some neutral colours such as blues, greens or blacks that can easily be paired with other pieces. ◆ Do not get stuck on skinny-pants. Think outside of the skinny-legs box. Wide legs are back and fabulous. Take the plunge and buy a pair. ◆ Do not forget the accessories. But before grabbing your go-tos, be sure to think through the form of the outfit. Which pieces need to be filled in, or not? How big should each piece be? What tone or colour should you use? Accessories can transform your look. Wearable art should always be considered when party goals include a bold and eccentric presentation. ◆ Do the laying trick — Always have a lightweight jacket in tow for layering.