The Herald Business Reporter The Agricultural Marketing Authority (AMA) says it is on the process of setting up moving virtual solutions that will allow the organisation to effectively implement its mandate following market disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. These solutions are expected to enhance virtual engagement and communication with stakeholders on measures that increase productivity, while preventing the spread of the pandemic. AMA is a national institution mandated with overall regulation of the production and marketing of agricultural products in the country. The key functions of AMA include regulation and provision of standards of quality for agricultural products, policy advice and recommendations to Government, and promotion of production and marketing of agricultural products and fair-trade practices. AMA also raises funds for production and marketing of agricultural products through agro bills and levy collection as well as maintain a comprehensive information system for the agricultural sector. Following the outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19), most of planned activities, especially those that depended on interface with producers and merchants of agricultural products were affected. To address these challenges and come up with a sustainable solution going forward, AMA is developing digital solutions that will improve the functions of the organisation as well as reduce the time between inquiries by farmers and agro-merchants and actioning. One of the activities earmarked for this digital solution drive is developing an interactive website and a mobile application that will, among other things, accommodate virtual training and timely registration of farmers and agro-merchants. AMA chairman Allan Majuru, said this development is in line with global practices that have seen companies turning to virtual options as a response to challenges posed by the global pandemic. “We need to appreciate the new reality and come up with swift measures that will allow AMA to remain relevant during and even after the pandemic. “The reality is that adoption of digital solutions will make it easy for the organisation to interface with all stakeholders interested in agriculture, which in turn, will result in improved service. Going forward, Majuru said the AMA strategy will be re-aligned to accommodate better online service delivery. Mr Majuru highlighted that the recently appointed AMA chief executive Clever Isaya is expected to lead the digital transformation of the Authority. Given the reduced human interaction, AMA plans to simplify and scale up online registration of all value chain players and improve access of the national database of producers and merchants of agricultural products. Working closely with local authorities and Agritex, the online registration of farmers of various crops and livestock will improve linkages with potential contractors and buyers for the coming 2020/21 season. An online registry is also expected to improve and encourage clustering of farmers and link these farmers to bulk buyers and wholesalers. Currently, AMA accepts online registration through downloadable forms that are available on its website. However, the planned online registration of value chain players is expected to do away with need for hard copy at all stages of the process, in part fulfilling the ease of doing business as championed by Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement. Newly appointed AMA CEO Mr Isaya believes the pandemic is already accelerating Africa’s digital transformation, governments and stakeholders need to bolster efforts to digitalise Africa’s agriculture by improving infrastructure and delivery systems essential for food production, trade and supply chains. “AMA is set to use digitalisation to promote accessibility of supplies essential for agriculture operational activities, reaching farmers with advisory, markets, financial, and supply chain services — all essential lifelines during these difficult times,” he said.