The Herald Godwin Muzari Arts Editor
In a bid to celebrate music legends’ works — which may go unnoticed by new generations — Jenaguru Village Arts Centre has approached institutions of higher education with a request for posthumous honorary degrees for musicians Biggie Tembo and Tinei Chikupo. The yesteryear singers made a mark in the local music industry and most people who followed their art are in agreement that the singers are among the most talented artistes to grace the scene. Tembo, who worked with Bhundu Boys and wrote a successful international history, is regarded as the finest voice of his time. The Bhundu Boys attracted the attention of international music followers and renowned singers. They left a mark as one of the most successful groups from Zimbabwe on the international scene. The group caught the attention of international stars like Eric Clapton and Elvis Costello who spoke glowingly of the great talent the “boys” had. Madonna requested to have them as a supporting act at her show at Wembley Stadium in the UK in 1987. It is such success, which involved Tembo, that Jenaguru Village Arts Centre is working to immortalise. The centre’s director Clive Malunga said Tembo deserved great honour and he is confident universities they have engaged will find it fit to confer posthumous honour to the legendary singer. “Up to now, Tembo’s music is relevant and can speak to the current situation because the compositions are timeless. Such is good music. It lasts forever. We also want honour for such musicians to last forever,” said Malunga. “This initiative is part of our bigger project to honour music legends, especially those who have passed on. We want current and coming generations to appreciate the value these musicians left in their music.” Malunga said it was good that some universities had honoured musicians like the late Oliver Mtukudzi, Thomas Mapfumo and Stella Chiweshe with degrees, which is deserved appreciation of their creativity. “As musicians, we are happy that institutions of higher learning appreciate our contributions to the creative world. Tuku, Mukanya and Mbuya Chiweshe got honorary degrees from respected universities. We want the same to be done for the pioneers of jiti music, Tembo and Chikupo.” Chikupo is renowned for his role in the music sector when he worked with some names that still credit him for his mentorship. Working and inspiring the likes of Nicholas Zakaria and Cephas Mashakada, Chikupo was a rare performer who won several recognitions. He was known to perform like a possessed man and would beat the likes of Tuku, Mapfumo and Zexie Manatsa during the “best musician of the month award” event when the musicians performed at Rufaro Stadium. His record company, Gramma Records bought him a house in recognition of his success and many musicians of his time saluted him for amazing talent. Malunga said more can be done to remember and honour Chikupo, whose talent was rare. “When I first saw him performing, I was amazed with the energy he possessed. His stage presence was unmatched. There was a time when fans broke into the stadium to watch him perform. People were still paying to enter the show when he went on stage. There was commotion and people broke into the stadium to watch him perform. Such was his popularity,” said Malunga. “When such stories are told, younger generations might not understand what was happening then. When we give honour to the legends, our children might be interested in knowing why we salute these legends. It is music history that should not be lost. It is our duty to tell the history.”