The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
RAINBOW Amateur Netball League coaches are concerned the long break induced by the Covid-19 pandemic may have lasting effects on their teams’ recovery. It’s now over four months since the league suspended matches. There was hope, when sport codes categorised as low risk were allowed to re-open, but mainly for training. However, the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country has changed all that. Glow Petroleum coach, Perpetua Siyachitema, said they face a difficult scenario. “I think this long break has affected us a lot, especially our players, because we were coming from off-season,’’ she said. “Now, even if they exercise at home, the fact that there is no game time means it will be difficult for them. “If we are to come back, we are supposed to play netball professionally, stay at one place is what is needed, training twice a day. “If it’s going to be next season, we should have the pre-season early.’’ On a positive account, the break has presented the former Gems captain with the opportunity to equip herself with the latest trends of the sport. “I am using the time to research, watch some clinics to see how they are doing it, dig deep into big teams just to see what they do,’’ said Siyachitema. ZDF Queens coach, Joel Sibanda, is also a concerned man. “We can’t blame anyone for the break but sport has really suffered,’’ he said. “We were coming from off-season, we had worked hard to bring them back to fitness. “They just played three games before we stopped, so, we are back to zero. “We were hoping that July, or August, things would be okay but (Covid-19) cases have risen now and we don’t think we will play soon.’’ Correctional Queens assistant coach, Faith Matanganyidze, said there was still some room to recover. “I think we can recover,’’ she said. “But, the important thing right now is we need to motivate each other as a team, do online training.” Correctional Queens have won the RANL championship twice and were looking to add a third consecutive title.