The Herald Fashion 263 Hope I find you well. You need to know that fashion is about comfort and feeling good. Somehow, since we are in the partial lockdown, it totally changes our fashion sense and mood. We were all getting used to our new morning routine of shower, jumping in track bottoms, getting tea or coffee, then boom, straight on your laptop and check emails at the kitchen table, since you have been working from home. Now, the restaurants have been re-opened based on observing the lockdown restrictions such as physical distancing, sanitising at the entrance and not more than 40 people dining inside, meaning to say that we are getting back on track. So, do you now know how to put an outfit together or you have already forgotten? Dressing for the occasion is an important aspect in the fashion world. My friends asked so, what are people wearing these days? Now we are still in winter and the last time you put on a real outfit was summer (February — before lockdown). Are you still keeping abreast with latest trends? Is last summer’s wardrobe viable? Well, the answer to that last question is, of course, a resounding yes. According to popular fashion guru and writer Charlie Teather, you need to reconsider purchasing an item of clothing that you know will only serve you for the current season. “Instead, for an instant wardrobe refresh it is wise to buy versatile pieces and look to sneaky styling hacks that have the power to transform an outfit with the just slightest pinch,” she said. However, while there are endless styling tips and tricks that the fashion crowd swear by, like how to wear your checked shirt with your jeans this winter or how to hold your clutch bag, mixing its print or design with your outfit, fashion enthusiastic need to know that there is one little detail when it comes to fashion which is versatility. Anyway, back to the wardrobe, someone inboxed me to emphasise on mistakes some gentleman are making this winter. I know it is still cold, but there are some fashion mishaps that need to be avoided. Below are the not to do tips, especially this season: ◆ Never wear coloured socks with loafers (casual shoes), unless you are going to a circus or being the clown at your children’s birthday party. ◆ For now stay off animal printed shoes, they are off season. ◆ It might be cold, but that does not mean you should not wear your belt. If you decide to wear one, please make sure it matches the shoes. ◆ Baggy trousers are so late and out-dated, worse when paired with a bomber jacket, you end up looking like you stole the clothes from Marvel comic hero, Incredible Hulk. ◆ Winter is for dull colours thus orange shirt paired with a blue scotch jacket is off. ◆ Clean shave is always important, but if you opt to keep the hair and beard, make sure it’s well combed and clean unless you are auditioning for singer Van Choga’s role in a local movie. ◆ Waistcoat should be worn to compliment an attire not as something to keep warm ◆ We have been screaming all over about layering, but gentlemen, when you decide to layer down kindly wear a white t-shirt with no print or embroidery. For those who love formal wear grey vests are the best. ◆ Lastly, we are still in the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, hence wash your facemask every night. Next week the focus is on ladies.