The Herald Oliver Kazunga Senior Business Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) will close operations for tourism players that would be found flouting the set guidelines and protocols to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement, ZTA head of corporate affairs Mr Godfrey Koti said it has come to their attention with “great concern” that some players in the tourism industry were breaching the laid down guidelines and protocols to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Following the 21-day Covid-19 national lockdown that began on March 30, the Government promulgated Statutory Instrument 099 of 2020, allowing all formal businesses to resume operations under level 2 of the lockdown. A further relaxation of the lockdown regulations was granted through SI 160 of 2020 allowing sit-in guests in restaurants. “It has, however, came to the attention of ZTA with great concern that some operators are not following the guidelines and protocols as well as the conditions set out in the above Statutory Instruments. “Operators are advised that ZTA regulatory and quality assurance team in conjunction with the relevant arms of Government, will be rigorously monitoring and enforcing compliance. “Any breach will leave the authorities with no option other than to close those operations found in breach,” said Mr Koti. The monitoring and enforcement of compliance will be ongoing throughout the lockdown period across the country. The authority commended Government and the Tourism Business Council of Zimbabwe for their efforts in reopening the tourism industry. He said as the sector gradually and partially reopens, there is need for all players in the tourism industry to strictly observe and adhere to the set Covid-19 guidelines and protocols. Mr Koti said the operating guidelines are meant to protect the sector’s most valued human capital and consumers of tourism services from Covid-19 risk exposure. “These protocols must be implemented and observed by all the relevant tourism sub-sectors without exception. “In order to compliment Government efforts in containing the spread of the Covid-19 virus, which has recently been on the increase, it is important that both business and consumers play their part,” he said.