The Herald LONDON. — The English Premiership relegation drama, which appeared to have ended on Sunday, could be fought in the boardroom with Bournemouth now considering legal action against Hawk-Eye. The Cherries finished 18th, on the table, one place and one point below Aston Villa. However, the failure by Hawk-Eye technology, during the first match of Project Restart between Villa and Sheffield United, when the Blades were denied what appeared to be a legitimate goal, could become a huge legal issue. Villa keeper Orjan Nyland carried the ball across the line after Oliver Norwood’s cross but play carried on, without a goal being awarded to the Blades. Referee Michael Oliver received no indication, on his watch or in his earpiece, the ball was over the line and waved play on with the match finishing goalless. Had the goal been given, and Villa lost that match, with the remainder of the season playing out identically, Bournemouth would have stayed up at Villa’s expense on goal difference. Bournemouth would have survived relegation after their 3-1 win over Everton on the final day of the season. Hawk-Eye issued an apology, saying it was the first time their system had failed in over 9 000 matches. “During the first half of Aston Villa vs Sheffield United match at Villa Park, there was a goal-line incident where the ball was carried over the line,’’ the company said. “The match officials did not receive a signal to the watch nor earpiece as per the Goal Decision System (GDS) protocol. “The seven cameras located in the stands around the goal area were significantly occluded by the goalkeeper, defender, and goalpost. “This level of occlusion has never been seen before in over 9 000 matches that the Hawk-Eye goal line technology system has been in operation. “Hawk-Eye unreservedly apologises to the Premier League, Sheffield United, and everyone affected by this incident.” Now, according to talkSPORT, Bournemouth directors will “discuss taking legal action’’ against the firm after finishing in the bottom three. Bournemouth won 3-1 against Everton, on the final day of the season. Thomas Horton of Football Law, speaking to Football London after the incident, had said Sheffield United could launch legal action, in the event they were denied European football, by the outcome of that match. “In order for it to even be considered, it would have to come to a point where Sheffield United have missed out on a UEFA club competition position in the league, or even that they have not finished as high up the league as they could have done, because of the two points they’ve missed out on had they won 1-0 against Aston Villa,’’ said Horton. “The factors to consider are that Sheffield United would earn more revenue from qualifying for a UEFA club competition, and secondly, because the higher up the league you finish, the more revenue you get from the Premier League as well. “It’s similar to when Sheffield United brought a claim against West Ham United for the whole Carlos Tevez situation, that winning goal from Tevez being the whole reason why Sheffield United got relegated. “So, that factual scenario would have to come around first for this even to be considered, in my opinion. “You’d have to wait for that to happen but then the league will test on whether or not that could be satisfied. “My opinion is, if any type of claim was brought by Sheffield United, or a team that’s affected in the relegation scenario, the claim would be in negligence, either against the Premier League or Hawk-Eye.’’ However, it appears, Bournemouth, are the ones now trying to test the laws. Whatever happens, Jesus Garcia Pitarch, who was instrumental in the recruitment of many of the Villa players, including Zimbabwe international midfielder, Marvelous Nakamba, will not be part of the Birmingham side. He has left his role as the Villa sporting director. The Spaniard was named sporting director in October 2018, shortly before Smith was appointed head coach, following a behind-the-scenes shake-up at Villa Park. Pitarch — also known as “Suso’’ — was tasked with overseeing the club’s recruitment strategy last summer as Villa spent £140 million on 12 new players. Despite some successes, many of those players have failed to live up to expectations and Villa were almost relegated. Meanwhile, Nakamba paid first term school fees for 82 pupils at Nekatambe Secondary School in Matabeleland North this year. The fees were paid through the midfielder’s Nakamba Investments firm. “On behalf of Nekatambe Secondary School, I would like to acknowledge the receipt of the payment of term one school fees for 82 learners as per your promise,’’ school head, Julia Matema wrote. “As Nekatambe Secondary School staff, learners, SDC, the responsible authority Methodist Church in Zimbabwe, board of governors and Dinde community at large, we would want to express our gratitude for extending your hands to our school by assisting vulnerable children. “We are greatly honoured by your humble gesture. “May God enlarge your territory and may silver and gold follow you. May you find favour in the eyes of man and before God. We also speak protection upon you in this season of Covid-19. “Your assistance came at a time when we were struggling to make ends meet due to poor payment of fees. The assistance went a long way, we managed to kick start a project of constructing a teachers cottage enabling us to buy 40 bags of cement, 20 litres of termite poison and brick force. “It is now our prayer that we will get more people to come in and assist from where we are now so that our teachers may have better accommodation. “In addition to building materials, we also managed to buy furniture (12 dual desks), 15 new curriculum textbooks for different subjects and chemicals for Combined Science,’’  said Matema. — Birmingham Live/Bournemouth Echo/Sports Reporter.