The Herald Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter
Touched by First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa’s Angel of Hope Foundation’s efforts to ease the plight of the elderly, the disabled and other vulnerable groups during the Covid-19 period, Cangrow Trading Private Limited yesterday donated 8 000 litres of cooking oil to the foundation for onward distribution to the targeted groups. The donation came at a time the country has tightened lockdown measures in the wake of a spike in coronavirus that has killed thousands of people across the globe. The lockdown measures, which largely restrict movement, result in most vulnerable groups failing to fend for themselves hence the First Lady’s intervention. The donation will boost the already running programmes being undertaken by Amai Mnangagwa to cushion vulnerable families against the blows of the Covid-19 pandemic. She has left no stone unturned in ensuring that disadvantaged groups have access to food and improved healthcare facilities. Her concern for the welfare of the elderly has seen her going around the country’s provinces, giving out an assortment of foodstuffs and information on how communities can protect themselves from the deadly pandemic. Cangrow Trading Private Limited is a multi-million-dollar investment in the cooking oil processing sector with commissioned plants in Norton. Presenting the goods yesterday, representative of the firm, Mr Ankit Jain, said that they recognised the immense work being done by the First Lady countrywide, hence the commitment to partner her foundation. “The First Lady, through her Angel of Hope Foundation, is doing a lot in uplifting the lives of unfortunate members of the society. We were touched by her ongoing programmes to assist the elderly and other vulnerable people hence our continued support. We have been working with Angel of Hope Foundation and we will continue assisting were we can,” he said. In an acceptance speech read on her behalf by the foundation’s board member, Mrs Rachel Nield-Geranios, the First Lady paid tribute to the firm for its assistance to those in need. “In this period of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has come to our attention that the elderly are the most vulnerable group in terms of food security. I am very happy that Cangrow Trading has decided to donate this precious liquid which every household cannot do without. This donation will contribute immensely in assisting the underprivileged and the marginalised residing mostly in rural areas. “Cangrow Trading Private Limited has also pledged to donate cooking oil to schools and homes of children living with disability. This eases access to the basic commodity. These donations will be done on a continuous basis and such a generous gesture is much appreciated,” she said. Angel of Hope Foundation, the First Lady said, has been operational since 2018, to support the vulnerable populace in accessing health services that will enable them to lead healthy lives and to assist disadvantaged women and youth in gaining resources they need to be income secure and lead a dignified life. She added that the foundation responds to communities by addressing economic and social vulnerabilities to enable them to cope with economic demands in life. “This gift by Cangrow will go a long way as the demand for the presence of Angel of Hope is increasing countrywide. We are grateful for this gesture. Thank you once again for this donation. We look forward to engaging you in other pursuits.” The First Lady thanked other organisations that have partnered Angel of Hope in its quest to touch lives.