The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter HIGH-RIDING actress Tadiwa Kimberly Bopoto, who plays ‘‘Noku’’ leading role in popular series ‘‘Wadiwa Wepamoyo’’, has clinched a fashion endorsement deal with elite fashion powerhouse HL Classique. Bopoto, who plays as Tawanda’s love interest in the series, was identified by HL Classique boss Tarisai Mukondo who signed the deal over the weekend to be the brand ambassador for the fashion house and the deal will last for a year. Part of the contract states that Bopoto will be dressed by HL Classique at various events, including on set during shooting of the series, depending on the script among others. In an interview with The Herald Arts, the 21-year old actress said was happy with how corporates are supporting her career and being a brand ambassador at such age. “I am beyond excited,” said Bopoto. “It is so amazing working with other young entrepreneur woman like Tari who is organised, focused and pleasant. She has achieved so much in her career. I stand proud to be associated with a brand of her class. “I would like to urge other women, the girl child included, to uplift each other as we develop the industry and country as well.” Bopoto said she will take the call as the brand ambassador and be the role model to young girls. “I also love fashion, so somehow it became a coincidence,” she said. “Meeting Tari was a dream come true. I am now a role model to some young girls and somehow my life has changed. “I am always indoors and my friends come to my house. My cellphone is full of games where I am always styling dolls. My mother is the one who manages me and if I go out to the shops, I am mobbed by fans, but now I am used to that.” Mukondo said the fashion industry had been rapidly evolving over the past few years, with big and small brands alike actively seeking to enter new markets. Mukondo said Bopoto takes over after Kay Stavo who was their brand ambassador for almost two years. “In order to reflect and adapt to the fashion changes, we have signed Bopoto to be our next brand ambassador,” she said. “She has been described as beauty with brains and she embodies our standard at HL Classique. “We chose her on merit as she meets our requirements. We hope to work with her very well. Unfortunately on set she will have to stick to the script, but we will try to accommodate that and check if we have merchandise that suits that.” Mukondo, a fashion guru, said they were making a strategic move to diversify the sales strategy to tap into an increasingly viable demographic of young trend fashionistas. “Our brand has been influx with most celebrities donning it, so we need to also accommodate the young, hip and fresh in the fashion world,” she said. “This is a significant shift from the brand’s tradition base and as such the company felt it needed to establish itself in that niche. “So far we have already ordered Bopoto’s merchandise which ranges from school girl to an empowered girl. We are not going to change her identity, but we will ride on what she has already established.”