The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO THE Bulawayo City Council have identified a site where a new stadium, which conforms to FIFA and CAF standards, could be built. This appears to be a deliberate move to preserve the City’s iconic Barbourfields Stadium. It has also emerged that installation of bucket seats at Barbourfields, one of the key requirements by football regulating authorities for a stadium to be compliant,  will see its carrying capacity reduced to 12 000 from 24 000. Recently, chief director in the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Benson Dube, said Government will not allow Barbourfields to be demolished because its sentimental value to local football. He said the facility will only be improved to meet FIFA and CAF standards, but if need be, a new site will have to be identified to build a new stadium. The issue of dressing rooms makes it almost inevitable that the VVIP wing at the stadium will have to be demolished. According to FIFA standards, dressing rooms must measure 240 square metres but the Barbourfields dressing rooms are a mere 10 percent of that, measuring 35 square metres. According to a report from the latest council minutes, on progress of the refurbishment of Barbourfields, the City’s director of housing and community services, Dictor Khumalo, said Government had allocated them $13 400 000 to assist in complying with CAF recommendations to ensure Barbourfields was compliant. The committee heard that air conditioners, refrigerators, televisions, furniture and a conference room sound system had been procured and installed as per requirements. There has also been renovations to the change rooms, press conference room, meeting room, media room, match officials’ room and lounges as well as the general painting of the stadium, including the public seating areas. Upgrades had also been done to the dugouts and signage leading up to, and within the stadium, had been installed. There was an estimated budget of $15 000 000 and $12 786 682.50 was used. According to the council minutes, outstanding works at the stadium include floodlights, since the required 1200 Lux, had not been reached. There is also need for work on the change rooms since the renovated ones were said to be too small. A budget of $74 million was needed for outstanding phase one works. The council said it also needed $166 million to supply and fit individual numbered seats which will reduce carrying capacity to 12 000. The committee considered the matter with Councillor Felix Mhaka enquiring if the city had plans to construct a new modern stadium. His proposal was for the demolition of either Luveve or White City Stadium. Councillor Tinevimbo Maposa supported the idea of a new stadium. “In response, the assistant director of housing and community services explained that considerations to construct a new modern stadium were underway. “The stadium site had been identified. “On the renovations of Barbourfields Stadium, he explained that the facility was constructed in 1950, the current requirements were indicating that the stadium should be demolished,” read the council minutes.