The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CATTLE grazing in the overgrown grass on what is supposed to be the football pitch and a driving school conducting some lessons on the sidelines. The walls have long broken down while the toilets and changing rooms are in an advanced state of disrepair. Welcome to Chipadze Stadium in Bindura. And, sadly, its poor state is not any different from the rot that is being seen in many sporting facilities across the country. The stadium, which was home to Bindura United during their flirtation with Division One football, is in a sorry state. Locals now even let their cattle graze in the overgrown grass while others have since turned a portion of the ground into a driving school. The walls have broken down. The toilets and changing rooms are in a state of disrepair. The stadium, owned by the Bindura Town Council, is a pale shadow of its former self and it is difficult to imagine it hosted the 2013 Youth National Games. “Chipadze used to be the pride of Bindura, and the whole of the province, in terms of sport,” said former Bindura United player Bernard Mutserenga. “Its central location made it a venue of choice. This ground used to be full to capacity when Bindura United were in action during our days in the Division One. “The ground also used to host the finals of the schools’ tournaments with teams coming from as far afield as Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Chiredzi. “But, it has been neglected for a long time. It’s very much unlike when we used to play here. What it only means is that sport is in trouble.” Bindura Mayor, Carlos Tokyo, concurred. “Our stadium has dilapidated to shocking levels. Look at how pathetic the pitch is, it’s now being used by driving schools,’’ he said. “My council has resolved to make an appeal for investors to come on board. We have to make sure our sporting facilities are attended to and I promise this is going to happen during my tenure.’’ Tokyo said non-sporting events, like political rallies, have contributed to the demise of the stadium. “The problem with ZIFA, probably countrywide, is that they don’t want to work with key stakeholders in the game,’’ said Tokyo. “We have never had them come to council, who are the owners of the land, to propose what we can do together for the development of the game. “It’s so embarrassing that a nation like Zimbabwe is barred by CAF from playing at home because we don’t have good grounds.’’ The Bindura mayor told mourners, at Biggie Zuze’s funeral that the stadium could be renamed after the late former Dynamos midfielder, once the renovations were complete. “I understand some 10 years ago, one of the mining giants here, Ashanti Gold Mine, tried to refurbish this stadium but it didn’t work out,’’ he said. “I told my council that there are many sports that we can look at, not just football. “We have lots of land here, this (Chipadze Stadium) is supposed to be a multi-purpose sporting facility. “We need these facilities. We have made some strides by refurbishing the community hall that had been destroyed by fire. “We have big space here at Chipadze Stadium and we can have tennis courts, basketball courts and netball courts as well. “The borehole facilities are there, we have the toilets that only need some touch-ups. “We need stakeholders and investors to come forward. “For example, we have Simba Bhora, a newly-promoted team in Division One but if you see the stadium they are building (in Shamva) you will be surprised. “I think I need to work with such people. “There is always a big disadvantage if you don’t have proper facilities. Look at how one of our teams in the province, Mushowani, struggled to stay in the Premiership. “It’s because they were playing home games away from home and it’s difficult.”