The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Talent search show StarBrite has started auditions for the Season 9 and this time around they are being conducted virtually because of the coronavirus pandemic. Aspiring contestants are to send a minute video clip of themselves showcasing their talent. In an interview with The Herald Arts, StarBrite founder and director Barney Mpariwa said all is set for the auditions. “We have adapted to the new form of utilising online platforms so we are not going to have a physical show. For now, all aspiring candidates are required to send a video clip showcasing their talent. We have a team of judges who will, by the end of this month, compile the list of videos and then select the best candidates to work with,” he said. He said those who would have excelled in the first round will then be notified. “After the first process those who would have qualified will then go to the next round where they will be given tasks to do on virtual platforms and then proceed to the next round. The tasks will be different and they will be judged on various responsibilities,” he said. Mpariwa said the auditions were set to begin in April but were affected by Covid-19 outbreak. “Following the success of the past StarBrite shows since 2012, StarBrite continues to seek meaningful and significant partnerships in 2020 and beyond. This significant show is designed to bring communities together to encourage talented people of this beautiful nation of ours to showcase their spoken word or poetry, singing and dance skills on stage,” he said. Meanwhile, a video of StarBrite’s previous visit to the children’s ward at Sally Mugabe Hospital, formerly Harare Hospital, will be screened on ZBCTV tonight. “Every Christmas for the past 10 years we select a hospital and we visit the children’s ward. We spend time with the children and they get to meet their favourite contestants they would have watched on television. We look for sponsors who donate food and clothes and we share with the children. I am happy that last Christmas, Nyaradzo Funeral Services managed to come on board and assisted us during our visit, to the hospital,” said Mpariwa.