The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE will have to wait until next year for their Davis Cup World Group II tie against China. This follows the announcement by the International Tennis Federation to push forward their events to 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic. Posting on their website, the international federation reached the decision to move the Davis Cup Finals, World Group I and World Group II ties, and the regional Group III and IV events. This followed a three-month review of the considerable logistical, and regulatory challenges, which have arisen as a result of the pandemic. The ITF board announced that the 24 home-and-away World Group I and World Group II ties, involving 48 national teams, which were due to be played in September this year, will be postponed until 2021. The ties will be played either in March or September. The 2020 regional Group III and IV events, in which 76 national teams entered, were also moved to 2021. The ITF will work with the hosts of these ties, and events, in order to ensure a safe environment in which they can be played. Zimbabwe were expected to host China in September in their second World Group II tie following their victory over Syria in March at Harare Sports Club. Tennis Zimbabwe president, Biggie Magarira, welcomed the move by the world tennis controlling body. “In terms of preparedness, in a way, we were ready. Our sponsors were ready. We also got a grant from ITF, so yes, we were ready,’’ he said. “But, everything has been affected by this thing, so postponement, in a way, is a welcome move. “I think this thing has affected a lot of people worldwide but the difference in climate is playing a big role. “In Africa, Southern Africa region, it’s winter and we are still in lockdown, so the level of fitness is very low, so it really affected the players. “It will be very unfair to play China, they came out of lockdown a long time ago. Our players are down here and have just started practicing now.’’ The national association are expected to meet tomorrow to check on the progress made after resumption of some of their activities. “We are going to meet on Friday, as the executive, to actually check on the progress and recommend to SRC if we can start to play national tournaments,” said Magarira.