The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
THE African Union Sports Council Region 5, in collaboration with the Association For International Sport for All, this week tarts an online Certified Leadership Course in Sport for All. This is the first time Region 5 are conducting an online course as part of the organisation’s response to the devastating effects of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. The course, starting tomorrow, is scheduled to run up to September 11, 2020. Thirty participants, drawn from eight of the 10 Region 5 Member Countries, have been enrolled in the course. Only Angola and Mozambique will not have representation. The AUSC Region 5 is made up of Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. “We are excited about this new initiative, which confirms our thrust as an organisation that is a leading home of innovation and excellence,” said Region 5 chief executive Stanley Mutoya. The CLC is a TAFISA course which aims to strengthen skills and competences in planning and organising physical activity and sport for all within communities. The course seeks to strengthen promotion of healthy lifestyles among people in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 3, that of good health and well-being. Mutoya said the course will be delivered by a strong and vibrant team of competent and experienced facilitators carefully drawn from the Region 5 team of experts. Among them are Professor Cora Burnett from the University of Johannesburg, Professor Anneliese Goslin of the University of Pretoria who is also an executive board member of the International Council of Sports Science and Physical Education. In addition, the team includes an expert from TAFISA, Steady Basupang and Malebo Raditladi and Tapuwa Masunga (Botswana), Moleboheng Mokobocho (Lesotho), Joseph Muchechetere (Zimbabwe), Ivy Chinagwa (Malawi), Sombwa Musunza (Zambia), Andrew Kamanga (Regional Anti-Doping Organisation Manager) together with Petros Mrape and Tsholofelo Maduma (Region 5 Office). Participants will be taken through various topics that include sport for all and physical activity, event management, marketing and public relations, leadership, safe sport, community club formation, inclusive sport, managing finances, communication and clean sport for all among others.