The Herald CAPE TOWN. — Hard-hitting statistics have been released by health authorities, which reinforces President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement that alcohol will be banned again. President Ramaphosa on Sunday laid down the law in emphatic style, announcing a tough raft of restrictions on civil liberties to battle Covid-19. These included an alcohol ban: “As we head towards the peak of infections, it is vital that we do not burden our clinics and hospitals with alcohol-related injuries that could have been avoided. “This is a fight to save every life, and we need to save every bed. We have therefore decided that, in order to conserve hospital capacity, the sale, dispensing and distribution of alcohol will be suspended with immediate effect”. On Tuesday, the “Sentinel Trauma Report” was made public by national Minister of Health Zweli Mkhize. The report was compiled by the Western Cape health department, initially after alcohol sales were legalised on June 1. The report has since been updated with July’s statistics. The report concludes with recommendations, which were submitted prior to the recent re-banning of alcohol. “As we approach the peak of the Covid-19 epidemic, our hospital emergency centres are being inundated with severely ill Covid-19 patients requiring stabilisation, emergency management and admission for further care.” — News24. The lifting of the alcohol ban has effectively resulted in a 62 percent increase in daily trauma cases presenting to emergency centres. In addition, we have seen trauma admissions increase by 54 percent, trauma ICU admissions increase by 350% and trauma deaths in the [emergency centres] increase by 308%! “This increase currently has and will continue to stretch [emergency centre] capacity; it has increased the number of admissions to wards; and it is depleting our ability to effectively manage and prevent the mortality from the double burden of Covid-19 and trauma deaths as we approach peak. “We would like to maintain the firm recommendation that the alcohol ban be reinstated to minimise the impact on our health services in their ability to manage Covid-19 in the Western Cape,” the recommendations concluded. The report itself comprises a series of slides, each accompanied by hard-hitting findings. These are: Western Cape daily trauma cases when first booze ban ended The data showed that the lockdown regulations and alcohol ban effectively reduced the number of trauma presentations to the order of 40-50%. Prior to lockdown, there was a consistent trend of weekend spikes of 140-160 trauma cases across the five facilities sampled. The average (median) across the period was 89 daily trauma cases. During lockdown and the alcohol ban, this reduced to approximately 60-80 trauma cases at the weekend spikes. The average across the period reduced to 46 daily trauma cases. One month prior to the release of the alcohol ban, the average over the period was 50 daily trauma cases. Of the total number of trauma patients seen in emergency centres, 40.8% were admitted. After the lifting of the alcohol ban, the absolute number of trauma cases requiring admission in the five hospitals sampled over one month were 363 additional admissions (54.2% increase in admissions). After the lifting of the alcohol ban, the number of trauma deaths increased by 307%. After the lifting of the alcohol ban, the average number of daily deaths from road traffic accidents increased from 1.44 to 3.77, an increase of 260%. The Western Cape health department reported that “when comparing the current data to previous analysis done in the province, the picture is not surprising”. In 2016, alcohol tested positive in : 50% of homicide victims 60% pedestrian fatalities 47% motor vehicle accidents 65% fire fatalities 47% drownings ‘Short-term’, ‘blunt mechanism’ Western Cape Premier Alan Winde on Monday agreed the new alcohol ban would have a “short-term” impact, but was unsustainable in the long term. Instead of the ban – which Winde described as a “blunt mechanism” – he called for a “smart” intervention on alcohol harms, which did not simultaneously harm the economy or cost jobs. “During Alert Level 4 and Hard Lockdown, when alcohol sales were initially banned, the Western Cape saw a marked decrease in the number of murders in the province – particularly stabbings. We also saw a significant decrease in the number of admissions to our hospital facilities for alcohol-related trauma events. “However, after sales were unbanned on 1 June, we saw an almost immediate and notable increase in the number of murders and a surge in trauma admissions again. “This has put additional strain on our healthcare system, especially in our high care and ICU units, where we are trying to save the lives of those people infected with Covid-19. “The link between alcohol and violence is well established and a ban on alcohol sales may result in a reduction in incidents of murder, gender-based violence and trauma events, such as road accidents and assaults, and for this reason can have an immediate impact on hospital capacity. “However, this is a blunt mechanism that will negatively impact the Western Cape economy and the Agri-processing sector, and will result in job losses across the province. It will also push the sale of alcohol ‘underground’, with less control over registered sales by our liquor authority. “To put it simply, while this may help in the short term, the problem is not going to go away and a long-term ban is not feasible. “That is why we support ‘smart’ interventions that understand that, like with Covid-19, we need a behaviour change approach if we are going to make a difference. We need to think outside-of-the-box, and this needs to be done whether there is Covid-19 or not,” Winde said. The premier explained that the Western Cape government had already initiated a project to consider long-term behaviour change. More videos 1m 20s WATCH | 19 May: Northern Cape records its first Covid-19 death as cases reach 17 200 1m 3s WATCH: Shops destroyed, traffic lights melted in Worcester gas explosion 54s WATCH: Gas tanker explodes in Worcester, buildings on fire 6m 52s Cycle the Cederberg’s rugged ridges with ease on an e-bike 30s WATCH: Fire rages out of control near Hermanus 51s WATCH: Emergency services describe injuries, structural damage after Worcester explosion 1m 4s WATCH: Ace Magashule sweet talks Afrikaans voters in Hermanus 1m 11s WATCH | 12 May: 11 350 cases of coronavirus in SA, 580 health workers have tested positive 59s WATCH | Western Cape firefighters demonstrate state of readiness as fire season approaches 1m 6s WATCH | Western Cape train chaos: Hundreds of commuters left stranded as power cuts cripple services 2m 53s Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape 1m 47s WATCH | Drakenstein district rolls out mass coronavirus screenings 44s WATCH | Train services in Western Cape fully restored after Fikile Mbalula intervenes WATCH | CT breweries use ‘giant pots’ to feed hungry thousands during lockdown WATCH | 7 May: Death toll up to 161, number of cases surges past 8 000 1m 45s WATCH | More beds must be ready sooner Zweli Mkhize says during field hospital inspection in WC 1m 35s WATCH | Treading water: Storm-ravaged Gugulethu residents get relief from Gift of the Givers WATCH | Premier Alan Winde tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, has type 2 diabetes 26m WATCH: EFF must be investigated for VBS says Mmusi Maimane 2m 18s WATCH: Cape fishermen turn their hands to science for underwater survey Winde said he hoped this would “be a pilot for the country”. “I will be raising this proposal with the president during our next engagement,” Winde said.