The Herald LUSAKA. — Chipolopolo coach, Milutin ‘Micho’ Sredojevic, who finally signed his US$25 000 a month two-year contract last week, says his mission is to ensure the team returns to the top table of African football. The contract was signed five months after the Serb arrived in Zambia. Micho’s men are in the same AFCON qualifying group as the Warriors and are bottom of the table after two straight losses, including a home 1-2 defeat to Zimbabwe. The gaffer arrived in Zambia in February but only signed his contract last week after a five-month standoff between the country’s football leaders and the government. The contract was signed in the presence of the Zambian Sports Minister Emmanuel Mulenga, FAZ president Andrew Kamanga, his deputy Rix Mweemba and deputy general-secretary Joseph Chimpampwe, as well as National Sports Council acting secretary-general Raphael Mulenga. “Firstly, I would like to welcome Micho to my Ministry, Sir you are most welcome and as government, we will give you the support you need and we will make your work easy,” Mulenga said. We will also make sure that we work hand in hand with FAZ in attending to the challenges you are going to face in this country. “His Excellency the President of the Republic of Zambia [Edgar Lungu] who is the patron of FAZ, welcomes you to this nation and believes you can deliver and can meet the expectation of the people of Zambia in making sure that the glory which we had in this nation is retained. “It is our hope that you will use the privilege of the resumption of football under the new normal of living with the [coronavirus] pandemic to monitor the capabilities of players in the local league and assemble strong teams which will deliver the expectations of this nation at CHAN and qualify to the AFCON as well as the World Cup.” This week Micho featured on ZNBC’s programme, “Dressing Room,’’ and said his technical team were having sleepless nights to ensure Chipolopolo reclaim their place among the elite of the African game. “This was one step in the shortest history of honeymoons because the moment that I signed, it was back to work and the realities of life there is so much to be done and at present,’’ he said. “We are targeting CHAN in Cameroon in January 2021, qualifiers for the AFCON that have been moved to 2022 and World Cup qualifiers. “It is about playing an invisible match at present, knowing the way CAF is planning at present, that is the latest information for you, that they are planning to allow us play friendly matches in September and October, to play friendly matches, so that slowly national teams (can come) back. “In November, we play the double-header with Botswana and, after that, we shall see when we can play Zimbabwe and Algeria. “We want to give respect to all Zambians that are dreaming to see their team back to the AFCON, where we belong, but not only AFCON but going beyond expectations.” He said he was the Covid-19-induced vacuum to invest in capacity building that has seen his bench conducting goalkeeping and video analysis courses for Super League and National Division One coaches. So far, he said, he had looked at over 495 players of Zambian origin in Zambia and beyond. “We have looked at 495 Zambian players, and Zambian players worldwide, and now we have a clearer picture of what we want and a bright future for Zambian football,” he said. “I have not gone round to complain about anything, my intention was to fully focus on the national team and, until now, I am happy with what we have fulfilled.’’ Micho signed a two-year contract on Friday that will see FAZ paying him US$15 000 while the government foots the other US$10 000. — FAZ/Sports Reporter.