The Herald Business Reporter
Craft Properties (PVT) Ltd — a Zimbabwe based subsidiary of Craft Properties Holdings — has appointed Mr Bako Ambianda to the board of its USA sister company with effect from May 5 this year. Mr Ambianda is current president of Bako Ambianda International, LLC, which is also a professional development company. Craft Properties founder, Mr Kudakwashe Taruberekera, said the appointment of Mr Ambianda to the board is a great achievement. Craft Properties USA LLC is a real estate and land developer that specialises in property sales and management, project management and land development, asset valuations and advisory services. Craft Properties USA, LLC is the US arm of Craft Properties (PVT), which operates across Zimbabwe’s major cities and towns including Kadoma, Harare, Masvingo, and Zvishavane. The company also has regional subsidiaries across the Southern Africa region with companies in Botswana and Zambia, while registration is underway in South Africa. About Mr Ambianda Mr Ambianda is a global African entrepreneur, well-known and respected as an international development expert with a career spanning more than a decade, reflecting top leadership and senior management focusing on economic development, foreign direct investment and international trade. He is the chairman and CEO of Labacorp Group of Companies with a portfolio of businesses in manufacturing, renewable energy, real estate, agribusiness and exhibition industries operating in five countries. He specialises in boutique investment and trade programmes across the world bringing investors, high profile business leaders and governments together to explore mutual synergies especially investing and doing business in Africa. He is a seasoned specialist dealing directly with governments and top businesses across Africa, the Middle East, and the United States. Mr Ambianda serves as the Chairman of ATIGS Group from 2015 to date, a USA-based company that specialises in promoting trade and investment opportunities in Africa and has facilitated over US$365 million dollars in Africa as part of its programmes. He is the founder of Africa Trade and Investment Global Summit (ATIGS), the leading prestigious Africa-global centric business platform in the world. He is also the founder of Africa Worldwide Alliance Partnerships (AfriWAPA), Solar Business Events, Solar Pioneer Awards, and Afridevelopism Institute. A multi award winner The impressive profile of Mr Ambianda shows that he is a multi-award winner as he has won several awards including: His general skills are: Event management, investment strategist,  thought leadership, strategic visionary, business strategy, talent management, international business, public speaking, marketing strategy, online advertising, team building, Microsoft office, customer service, motivational speaking, branding and identity, people management, capital markets, turn around management, due diligence, portfolio management, trading strategy, negotiation, facilitation, investment. Mr Ambianda is the chairman of ATIGS Group, Inc from 2015 to date, which is a trade promotion, project facilitation and development company. He founded ATIGS Group in 2015 and he set the strategic direction for success and he is also responsible for leading day to day management, development and execution of the group’s long-term strategies and plans. In March 2014 to September 2015 he was the consultant and construction project manager at Zepalac/Reed Construction in Austin, Texas. Between  2014 and 2015 he was the vice president of Sciences Toastmasters International Club, 2014 to 2015 he became the reporter of International Business and Trade United States Press Agency covering international news on trade and investment around the world with focus on Africa. He became the project manager of Cameroon Connection Water Project in 2015 Cameroon Connection Projects. From 2012 to 2013 he was the consultant and Business Development of Market America Inc. where was working on growing the market. In 2012 he was the consultant, talent developer and manager of Conquer Entertainment in New York. In 2012 he was the citizen diplomat at Maryland State House, fall semester 2011 and 2012, he was the vice president and president of international student association at Anne Arundel Community College respectively. From 2012 to present day he is the managing director of Global Attain Advancement LLC(GAA) d/BA GAA Exhibitions and Conferences. Mr Ambianda is a respected publisher who has penned over eight publications namely; Destined To Win In The Game of Life (2014), Ingredients To Uplift Your Journey (2015), Who is In Your Ears (2015), Invest In Your Mindset (2016), The Unstoppable Warrior (2017), Fuelling Africa’s Economic Development (2017), The Bako Nine Wisdom Keys (2018) and How to See it and Go get It (2018). The bookworm, Mr Ambianda holds several qualifications including a degree in civil engineering, while he has also successfully completed training in strategic management and construction among other related certificates.