The Herald Deputy News Editor
Businesses organisations are helping companies source Covid-19 test kits at significantly lower prices than private Zimbabwean importers are charging so employers can comply with the new regulations that all staff of reopened businesses must be tested before 21 May. Initially, Government had ordered that businesses couldn’t re-open until all staff were tested but reviewed the policy and gave a two week deadline after re-opening for the testing. This followed acceptance of explanations that kits were hard to obtain and were costing US$25 payable only in foreign currency. Businesses felt they were too expensive and that insistence on foreign currency was illegal and impossible for most businesses who can charge only in local currency. The policy change also encourages businesses to contact the Health Ministry who will help arrange places and times for a block of staff to be tested. Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce chief executive officer Mr Takunda Mugaga said his organisation had approached suppliers in South Africa and India for the test kits and the prices are lower than those demanded by local suppliers. “We have made significant strides in sourcing kits with South Africa and India being the source markets; we are still on the negotiation stages with our suppliers regarding the logistics given cargo is not easily available for every business which needs it. “We are expecting to land them at cheaper rates and sell them in an affordable model to our membership. It’s our belief also that we will not promote strict selling of the kits in US$ only as we had witnessed with some players in Harare,” said Mr Mugaga. The Ministry of Health and Child Care will help organise the times and places for testing if contacted by employers. The amendment, in Statutory Instrument 102, the seventh amendment to the original lockdown regulations, and issued by Health Minister Dr Obadiah Moyo, states that the tests must use the rapid results diagnostic test or any other test approved by the minister. According to the amendment, employers may arrange with enforcement officers for the testing to take place at an agreed time at the workplace or at any other agreed place. To make the arrangements for testing, employers may contact the Health Ministry Call Centre or the Ministry of Information Call Centre. The Health Minister can also order retesting done at intervals of not less than 30 days. Until such a time when employees are tested, employers have to provide hand sanitisers while temperature of everyone entering the premises in checked. Evidence of tests have to be documented and produced on demand to enforcement officers. Businesses that fail to prove staff were tested can be closed and staff sent home immediately. Anyone hindering an enforcement officer, or any employer staying open after being ordered to close, is guilty of an offence and this can attract the standard lockdown breach penalties of a fine up to level 12, imprisonment up to a year, or both. On Thursday, 1 350 rapid screening tests and 333 PCR tests were done in the public sector. 