The Herald The effects of the coronavirus infectious disease-19 (Covid-19) pandemic have been devastating for industries, businesses and health sectors across the world. However, no one is more at risk of slipping into poverty than families that were already vulnerable before the current crisis. As lockdown measures continue with easing of restrictions in critical economic sectors, many are facing an uncertain future and a possibility that their main sources of income may not be as readily accessible as before. Africa University’s (AU’s) international students, who are still resident on campus due to travel restrictions, are making an effort to lighten this burden of uncertainty for vulnerable families. They are extending kindness and support. The students were motivated to give back to the community as a gesture of appreciation for the assistance that Africa University extended to them in their time of need as Zimbabwe implemented shelter in place strategies to stem the spread of the virus. The Feed a Family Campaign aims to assist families in Mutare, Mutasa and Nyanga districts, where pastors serving in these areas will assist in the identification of families that are most in need of help. The project has been funded through forgoing of one meal a week by the more than 200 students currently resident on campus. The cost of the food that the students elected to forgo is then channelled towards the purchase of food items to support needy and vulnerable families. The stories shared by the first beneficiaries of the food items that included salt, two litres of juice, poultry, peanut butter, cooking oil and maize meal have been harrowing, with some claiming they had not eaten for days, while others claimed they resorted to foraging for edible root/tuberous vegetables to provide meals for their children. The donations were handed over on Monday May 4, 2020 in the presence of the Africa University Dean of Students, Mr George Miti and Chaplain Reverend Maudy Muchanyerei. These were a timely blessing and a true representation of servant leadership and the dedication of Africa University and its student body to the community that it serves. Meanwhile AU’s Students Representative Council president Shaideen Travers, has been leading the way in his neighbourhood of Braeside, in Harare, in providing food to vulnerable families during the current lockdown period.