The Herald LONDON. – Jose Mourinho admits football is his “world” – but has urged patience before football can return. Tottenham boss Mourinho is playing his part in the coronavirus by delivering vegetables to the local community during the lockdown. But Mourinho admits he is desperately missing the beautiful game having gone seven weeks without a game but says there is more at stake. Mourinho said: “I miss football. But I prefer to say I miss our world, like I think we all do. Football is just part of my world. But we have to be patient, this is a fight that we all have to fight. “We have to wait for the right permission for them to train again in groups to see if they can come back to a normal competition level.” The Premier League is determined to play out the season but is almost certainly heading towards a scenario where all remaining games are played behind closed doors. Mourinho admits that will be a strange scenario – but says football must accept the new normal and they will just have to imagine that the world is looking on with a TV audience. “If we play the remaining nine matches this season it will be good for every one of us,” he told Sky Sports. “But returning is light at the end of the tunnel. “It will be good for football, for the Premier League. If we play football behind closed doors I’d like to think that football is never behind closed doors. “With cameras, it means that millions and millions are watching. So if one day we walk into this empty stadium, it will not be empty, not at all.” Tottenham have been trail blazers by having coronavirus tests at the stadium and they are also arranging deliveries to the local community under lockdown because of the virus. Mourinho had previously helped another charity with deliveries and his new world means playing his part as well as living with other members of the coaching staff near the training ground. Mourinho admits he feels “strange and emotional” but wants to play is role and is “proud” of his club’s efforts. “You try to visualise what the normal day is here, the pre-match, the match, after the match, then you come here and just see an incredible hospital facility,” said Mourinho. If there is one good thing to come out of the lockdown it is that Harry Kane has been able to recover fully from his hamstring injury. Moussa Sissoko and Steven Bergwijn were also out injured and Mourinho says they are all fit and Kane’s return is good news for club and country. Mourinho added: “They are recovered from their injuries, so Harry Kane is not injured, Moussa Sissoko is not injured, Steven Bergwijn is not injured, but it is one thing not to be injured, it’s another thing to be ready to play football. “For them it is many, many, many weeks of injury and when the injuries were almost at an end, we stopped training (because of the coronavirus pandemic). “I don’t know, they don’t know, we have to wait for the official and right permission for the players to train again in groups to see if they can come back to a normal competition level. “So if we play this season, the remaining nine matches, it would be good for everyone of us, it would be good for football, it would be good for the Premier League if players of that quality can play the remaining matches.” — The Mirror.