The Herald Allan Muchibwa Sports Correspondent FOR years, we have been inspired to read The Herald back-to-front, it has always been the name at the back which has made many of us look for the name on the front. It’s the back page that has shaped most of our football opinions and 20-odd years, and a beard later, the habit has developed into a culture. Recently, there has been chatter around the title of King of Zimbabwean football and a few names have been thrown into the fray. It seems the debate has eventually narrowed down to two men — Moses Chunga and Peter Ndlovu. Firstly, the pertinent question is, what do we mean by King of Zimbabwean football? There has to be a science associated with any method any of us may use in coming to this conclusion and there might be need for a criteria in order for us to justify our claims. Otherwise, how else can we measure talent? Contribution is the biggest indicator, and probably the fairest judge, opinions are subject to bias, allegiance, preference and nostalgia. Longevity, consistency and the stage played have to constitute the criteria. Style, panache, position and memorable moments, in isolation, cannot justify, or warrant passing a notion as true. There are players who can contribute incredibly for the national team, but not necessarily for their respective clubs. A classic example would be Lukas Podolski, brilliant for the Germans, hardly a world-beater for his respective clubs. Then, there are players who do well for their clubs, but not as much for the national team, Edward Sadomba is an example closer to home. In line with the criteria I have set out, I think many of the players who have been part of the conversation naturally fall short, not because of inability but because of inadequate contribution for both club and country over an extended period of time. Moses Chunga was a phenomenal talent, banging in 46 goals in a single league campaign is no mean feat, it is even more remarkable when one considers he scored them from midfield. Still revered, not just at Dynamos but also in Belgium, a cult-hero. But, can the same be said of his contribution to the national team cause? I think not, and the same can be said of many of many others — club heroes, yes, Warriors’ legends, not so much. What of Freddy Mkwesha, the first player of African origin from here to go and ply his trade in Europe, for Sporting de Braga in Portugal? He went on to rub shoulders with the late Portuguese legend Eusebio, and some of the very best in that country’s top-flight football and, at one point, was joint top goal- scorer. But, what of his national team exploits? What of George Shaya, a record five-time Soccer Star of the Year? Are they disqualified from the conversation because they are from a different age? Yesteryear footballers may have been prejudiced by the colonial system — perhaps curtailing their contribution to the country. I stand guided, but it makes it difficult to make a case for either Shaya or Mkwesha. The debate will never end in the court of public opinion. What of Bruce Grobbelaar? Thirteen years playing for Liverpool, amassing over 400 league appearances, and over 600 appearances in all competitions for the Merseyside giants. Thirty- two international caps for the national team? This, then, brings me to another candidate — Knowledge Musona. I think Knowledge Musona is the closest to Peter Ndlovu — a player who has done it at both levels, club and country, over an extended period of time. He has been the mainstay of the national team for a decade, almost single-handedly carrying it until Khama Billiat came into the picture in the last half of the decade. Knowledge has led the Warriors to two editions of the AFCON finals, topping the scoring in one of the qualifying campaigns, has 22 national team goals in just under 45 international matches. Goals against Liberia, Mali, Cape Verde, South Africa, Burundi, Egypt, Guinea, Swaziland, Malawi, Tanzania, Tunisia, DRC and the Congo. Only three of the goals were scored in three friendlies, the rest were bagged in tournament qualifiers and the AFCON finals. Had he played more games in tournaments such as the COSAFA Cup, one would argue he would probably have had more goals by now. He turns 30 in June and can significantly improve his output in the next couple of years. The Soweto Derbies against Orlando Pirates, he always delivered, the first time he came across a crisis in his career was in Germany. The only criticism has been his response to struggle — and it is a personality problem. He could have been so much better, and played in some of the best leagues in the world, but he never was hungry enough to show how good he was. More often than not, talent in isolation is never enough, especially at this level. However, I want to avoid speculating on what could have been and Musona should be judged on what he has managed to contribute on both fronts. For me, he is second only to Peter at present. He is still 30, let us see how much he can kick on with what is left of his career. It will be a tough ask for him to surpass Peter’s haul of 38 goals for the Warriors. We cannot ignore, however, that he has a strike rate of almost a game in every two matches for the national team, which is nothing short of remarkable. Many like me feel he is underrated and even disrespected, sometimes, especially in conversations of this nature. For now, however, Peter Ndlovu is the deserved King of Zimbabwean football. Allegiances, preferences and nostalgia aside, Peter played consistently at a high level, contributing for an extended period of time on both fronts — club and country. He played for about 13 years in England and was a force for every club played for. But, sport is opinionated, others will see it differently, but this is how I see it. There has to be a method in coming up with the best but, no matter how anyone would decide to look at it, Peter still reigns but should never to take anything away from some of the remarkable talents we have seen in this country. l Allan Muchibwa is a part-time guest sports analyst at Capitalk 100.4 FM and briefly worked as Dynamos Media Liaison Officer.