The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THEY used to call him “Monkey,’’ during his playing days, back then when his midfield artistry used to shine brightly, illuminating the domestic top-flight football league. Later, that nickname changed, and the “y’’ disappeared. So, let’s just call him Monke. He looks frail now and, when we finally meet, he struggles to keep fighting back tears. Some people have finally remembered him and, of course, it could only be The Herald, he says. He agrees to talk and, just like that, explodes into a story where he scaled the heights before tragedy struck and ended his career prematurely. For, there was a time Thomas Muchanyareyi was a very big name in Zimbabwe football. He was a Black Aces star midfielder, and on the rise, when a traffic accident ended his playing career in 1989. Having helped his team to a victory over Tanganda at Gwanzura a day earlier, he was on his way to watch the Harare Derby on a Sunday at the National Sports Stadium. But, the vehicle he was travelling in burst a front tyre, at a fly-over along the High-Glen Road in Aspindale, the car rolled several times, killing his friend teammate, David Shumba. “My friend Shumba died on the spot, a number of us suffered varying degrees of injuries,’’ he told The Saturday Herald at his home in Mufakose. “I knew straight away that it was the end of my football world and I was right.’’ He is now 59, alone, as his two sons also died along the way. “Such is life. I wanted to see them grow and carry on the torch, but, they are both late.” When the accident happened, he was on the verge of joining Dynamos. “Dynamos officials, led by Simon Sachiti, had expressed interest in signing me while Obadiah Sarupinda, who was at CAPS United then, also wanted me to join them. “I then wanted to join Dynamos but, then, the accident happened.’’ He had become a key member of the Warriors in their AFCON 1990 qualifying campaign alongside with the likes of Moses Chunga, Wilfred Mugeyi, Albert Mabika and Stanford “Stix” Mtizwa. His role model was Archieford Chimutanda. “l think Archieford Chimutanda is still the best midfielder to emerge from this country,’’ he said. “His ball control, chest control and passing abilities were just out of this world. He also had an eye for goal and was just a marvel to watch. “And, of course, there was another midfield magician — Joel ‘Jubilee’ Shambo. He was a great midfielder and a ball juggler of repute and, for some of us who grew up watching him playing football in Mufakose, we just wanted to emulate him. “I also grew up watching the likes of the legendary George ‘Mastermind’ Shaya, Steven ‘Faka Simbi’ Chimedza and Ernest Kamba, who all turned out for Dynamos in the 1970s, and I couldn’t miss any of their games.” Born in Mufakose in 1961, Muchanyareyi grew up kicking plastic balls with other talented players like Stanley “Sinyo” Ndunduma and Shambo. Before joining Aces in 1985, he played for Division Four side Hygienic and helped them win promotion into Division Three in 1983, scoring 21 goals. He left in 1984 to join Aces and was an instant hit. He was voted the Natbrew Player of the Month for February 1985 and pocketed $100, which was a lot of money back then. His performances against Black Rhinos and Tornados even earned him a draft into the Warriors where he rubbed shoulders with Ndunduma, Shambo, Mtizwa, Gift “Ghetto” Mpariwa, Japhet Mparutsa, and Willard Mashinkila-Khumalo. Aces then changed their name Blue Line Aces and some of his teammates included goalkeeper Peter “Chops” Fanuel, Brighton Dzapasi, Darlington Chitauro, James Matora, John Nyama, David Gurajena and Anthony Mbidzo. He established his place in the midfield, combining well with Pickson Katsande, Craft Makuvatsine and Webster Rozenjani. And who was his most difficult opponent? “Without any doubt, Angirayi Chapo (the former Dynamos captain),’’ he said. “Chapo was just a difficult opponent for me because we grew up playing football together in Mufakose and he knew all my tricks and when he tackled you, you could just feel it in your bones and all over your body. He was as tough as a nail.’’ Muchanyareyi now runs a small business in Mufakose. “We used to play for nothing and opportunities were very limited,’’ he said. “I am surprised today’s players prioritise money ahead of their careers. “We have talent in Zimbabwe, I think what lacks is the determination and desire to excel.” Muchanyareyi’s former Aces teammate, Philip Zulu, who is now based in the UK, said the attacking midfielder was destined for the stars. “Thomas (Muchanyareyi) had everything to his game — pace, athleticism, agility, technique, intelligence and great creativity, a rare combination in modern world football leagues today,” said Zulu. “He was the epitome of the charismatic skilful footballer, a colourful talented attacking midfielder who brought a new wave of creative football on the local scene. “He is one player, without a doubt, who would have played for any top club in Europe or South America. “Somehow the (Warriors) coaching staff then failed to allow him to play with freedom and with the combinations that allowed for the growth of his fledging style of play. “It was a painful end to his journey.’’ Additional reporting by Sports Editor Collin Matiza