The Herald Herald Reporter NURSES this week paid tribute to each other for the work they do in saving lives, as they commemorated this year’s International Nurses Day at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. In statements issued by nursing associations to mark the event which is commemorated on May 12 each year, the nurses said this year’s celebrations were of much significance to their profession. They said although the Covid-19 pandemic had brought a number of challenges for the profession, the calling to save lives was being challenged more than                                                                                  ever. Zimbabwe Nurses Association president Mr Enock Dongo said Covid-19 made the role of nursing more pronounced. “As we celebrate this year’s International Nurses Day in the midst of Covid-19, we are motivated and encouraged by words of wisdom from the pioneer of nursing that getting rid of a patient’s adversary is the first rule with the sick,” he said. “In this case, ‘sickness’ is the enemy to the patient and as nurses, we ought to help our patients overcome this adversary even as the world is fearful of  Covid-19.” Mr Dongo said for nurses, the day should serve as a reminder of the boldness and selflessness nurses must have. Zimbabwe Urban and Rural Council Nurses Union president Mr Simbarashe Tafirenyika applauded all nurses in service, saying they remained committed despite several challenges they were facing. “No matter the economic hardships you are facing and all the challenges you are encountering when executing your duties, you have to remain committed to rendering services to the rich and the poor,” he said. “Nursing is a calling, hence only those who pass through the training may understand what you encounter.” Young Nurses Association of Zimbabwe president, Ms Cynthia Shatei said: “We would like to thank all the frontline nurses for sacrificing their precious lives for the nation in an effort to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. “This proves the existence of the Florence Nightingale spirit within the nurses and for this reason we salute them all as they continue valuing the patients over their families.” The International Nurses Day is a day set aside by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to recognise the contributions nurses make to society.