The Herald LONDON. — One player and two staff at Watford and Burnley assistant manager Ian Woan are among six positive English Premier League football tests for coronavirus. The other two are at a third club, the details of which have not been revealed. Players and staff who have tested positive will now self-isolate for seven days. It comes as squads started non-contact training on Tuesday, as the English Premier League steps up plans for a restart. A total of 748 players and staff from 19 clubs were tested. Norwich City did their tests on Tuesday. On Tuesday night, Watford confirmed that one player and two staff members have tested positive and will begin a period of self-isolation, but they would not be naming those involved as they had asked for medical confidentiality. “Watford Football Club confirms that three people have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus following testing at the training ground over the past 48 hours,” the club said in a statement. “Of those three positive tests, one is a player and two are members of staff. All three have asked that medical confidentiality be respected and, therefore, the club will not be naming those involved. “All three will now self-isolate for seven days — in line with the protocols set out in Premier League guidelines — before being tested again at a later date. “Strict adherence to the Premier League guidelines has ensured the training ground remains virus-free and a safe environment for the players to continue to work. The club will continue to liaise closely with the affected personnel and there will be no further comment.” Before the news about Watford’s positive tests emerged, captain Troy Deeney said he would not return to training because he feared for his family’s health. “We’re due back in this week. I’ve said I’m not going in,” Deeney (31) told Eddie Hearn and Tony Bellew on the Talk the Talk YouTube show. “It only takes one person to get infected within the group and I don’t want to be bringing that home. My son is only five months old. He had breathing difficulties, so I don’t want to come home to put him in more danger.” — BBC Sport.