The Herald Crime Reporter FOUR armed robbers recently raided a suspected gold dealer in Mutare and stole US$20 000, HP laptop and various cellphones at gunpoint at his home . The four suspects Mhike Musiiwa (35), Nunurai Samakande (27), Gabriel Mukambachaza (38) and Zacharia Mlambo (43) have since been arrested in connection with the case. Criminal Investigations Department (CID) spokesperson Detective Inspector Portia Chinho confirmed the arrests yesterday. She said on March 19, 2020 the four robbers went to the dealer’s house purporting to be selling gold. “Upon arrival, the accused persons produced a piece of gold and were paid US$227. Suddenly, they pounced on the complainant. One of the accused persons pulled out a pistol, while others pulled out machetes and a knife and started to attack the complainant at the same time demanding cash from him. “The accused persons went on to ransack the whole house. They stole US$5 000 which was in one of the bedrooms, a safe that was in the wardrobe with cash amounting to US$15 000, HP laptop and various cellphones. After committing the offence, the accused person fled from the scene,” Detective Insp Chinho said. A report was made to the police and investigations carried out revealed that one of the robbers persons used to be employed by the dealer as a gold buyer. On the previous day, the dealer had met three of the robbers at a service station in Mutare Central Business District and had purchased gold from them. “After the transaction, the accused persons had promised to do more business with the complainant. A CCTV footage retrieved from the service station depicted three of the accused persons. Further investigations led to the arrest of one of the accused persons in Harare. Upon interview, he implicated his accomplices who were later on arrested. “The accused persons led detectives to a bushy area near Dangamvura Cemetery, Mutare where the stolen safe and a laptop bag were recovered. The recovered property was positively identified by the complainant,” she said. Detective Insp Chinho said the robbers appeared at Mutare Magistrates Court last Monday and they sentenced to 12 years imprisonment each. Two years was suspended for 5 years on condition that each one of them restitute the dealer with US$3 608