The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars utility, Qadr Amini, is feeling strange, but he has something to celebrate. For only the second year, since he started his Premiership career at Gunners, 11 years ago, the devout Muslim is completing all the 30 days of the holy fasting month of Ramadan. The only other year he managed to fast for the entire Ramadan month was in 2018 when the star had not been registered by his team due to injury. This time, because of the coronavirus outbreak which has forced a freeze in football activities, Amini has joined other Muslims across the world in observing Ramadan. “I am very happy to join the Islamic community across the globe in observing our holy month of Ramadan,” Amini said. “The month of Ramadan is sacred but due to the nature of my job, I have not been able to really observe it since around 2009 when I made my Premiership debut as a 19-year-old. “The only other time I managed to participate fully in the holiness of the month was back in 2018 when I was nursing an injury. “I didn’t kick a ball that year and I can safely say, it was because of Ramadan that I managed to fully recuperate, otherwise, I wouldn’t be playing football right now. “My team, Ngezi Platinum Stars helped me a lot because the nature of the injury was like career-ending. “This time around, I am going to complete the month. “The coronavirus epidemic is ravaging the world and threatening our livelihood and we pray that it is contained as soon as possible so that life will be normal again. “But, the other side of the story is that I have been able to take part in the holy Ramadan month.” The Ramadan festival is observed by the Muslim community around the world and normally runs between April 25 to May 24. But, with mosques, masjids and other holy sites closed due to the novel coronavirus epidemic, they have been forced to confine all traditions within their homes. And for Amini, it feels very strange, but necessary. “The Covid-19 has affected a lot because in this blessed month we are supposed to go to the Masjid (Church) more often, gather as brothers, do prayers, read the Quran and remind each other about this blessed month. “But, now we can’t because we are not allowed by the law to gather, so I am doing this with my family at home (in Budiriro).” Amini is one of the players who had rebounded into the Warriors fold and was set to play in the CHAN finals in Cameroon in April before the tournament was pushed further due to the coronavirus outbreak. He even stood a good chance to squeeze into the AFCON squad had the 2021 qualifiers not been halted. “For me, the postponement of the CHAN finals and AFCON qualifiers was a big blow. “I worked so hard to be back in form after my long term injury, so I was happy, feeling grateful to be called to the national team again and I was prepared to go and express myself in  Cameroon and come back for AFCON qualifiers as well but, it wasn’t to be. “I still believe though, and have faith in the Almighty that everything happens for a reason in life.” Amini, just like every athlete in Zimbabwe is training alone, at home.