The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Rugby Union are widening consultations with their affiliates to find the best way forward after the game was classified among the high risk sports. The Union was forced to shelve the domestic league while international fixtures, some of them with a bearing on next year’s Olympics, have been suspended at global level. “We are a union that is regulated by the Ministry of Sport, via the Sports Commission, so we always adhere to the instruction from above, obviously, for the good of the game,” said ZRU chief executive Sifiso Made. “Covid-19 has affected all facets of life and rugby is obviously one of the disciplines classified under the high risk sports by the Sports Commission because of the nature of the game, which is physical and high contact. “As a union, we also have our affiliates, for example the Harare Province and the Bulawayo Metropolitan, which are the biggest leagues. “So, we have asked them to carry out their own assessments and strategies to ensure health and safety for all in face of the coronavirus disease. “Right now players are training at home and I understand they are working closely with the strength and conditioning coaches. “Before returning to the rugby field we have to make sure we have met all the minimum requirements spelt out by the SRC. “The players and officials have to undergo strict testing, we have to ensure that the facilities are disinfected and we will strive to support the Government efforts in trying to contain this disease,” said Made. Zimbabwe rugby has not been spared by the coronavirus lockdown which has crippled sport worldwide. Apart from the suspended domestic fixtures, the Sables, the Cheetahs and the Under-20 rugby team, which was supposed to take part in the Continental Under-20 Junior tournament in Nairobi this month, have all been affected. The ZRU have also embraced technology to keep operations running via virtual meetings, which have proven cost-effective. “We appreciated the beauty of technology more during this lockdown period and it has been exciting doing business through chats and meetings online. “Our next board meeting is going to be done via Zoom meeting. Actually, we also realised that it was costly trying to gather everyone from all over the country for meetings when the same things can still be done online with the same desired results,” said Made. ZRU have also been in constant communication with Rugby Africa regarding the continent’s strategies on safe resumption of the game.