The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Three local radio stations  have joined forces to pay tribute to veteran disc jockey Peter Johns who died last Monday in the United Kingdom. Johns, who was affectionately known as “The Radio Driver” and worked for Radio 3 (now Power FM), died after a long illness, battling three strokes and a heart complication. Star FM, Power FM and ZiFM  will conduct what they have termed “Tribute Multicast” tomorrow. The tribute session will start in the afternoon with Star FM taking the lead from 2pm. Zimpapers Radio Division general manager Comfort Mbofana said all was set for the tribute show to be hosted by the three radio stations. “This is first time in the history of broadcasting in Zimbabwe for so many radio stations come up together and create something with oneness. We decided to pay tribute to our veteran deejay. Peter Johns was a legend. The multicast will start with us. We will have call ins’, reading tribute messages from fans and discussing how radio makes a difference to you and the community. These are some of the sessions which will be conducted,” he said. ZiFM Stereo programmes coordinator Danis Dube, affectionately known as “Danny that Guy”, said they are excited to be paying tribute to the legendary icon PJ. “For our simulcast, ZiFM will be represented by veteran Tonderai ‘TK’ Katsande and he will be focusing on listener testimonials, giving everyone who enjoyed listening to Peter Johns the opportunity to share how he made them feel when he was driving the radio,” he said. He added that if people have their testimonials, they can share them on the station’s social media pages so that they can be used on the show. Speaking on behalf of Power FM, Rumbidzai Moyo said they will be focusing on work done by the late Peter Johns. “We will have Eunice Goto, Felix Nganjo, Joe Hussein, Comfort Mbofana and Tendai Chakanyuka among others to say their tributes. “This will be driven by the music that PJ used to play,” she said. DJ Scott will host the tribute show on Power FM.