The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO FORMER Highlanders midfielder, Mthulisi Maphosa, could be one of the junior coaches at Bosso following reports he has submitted his qualifications for the job. The Bulawayo giants’ junior coaches resigned enmasse recently. The last of the three junior coaches, Dan Ngwenya, tendered his resignation last week. The Under-14 coach had been left in charge of the Under-16 and Under-18 age groups after Gift Lunga Jnr and Siza Khoza threw in the towel. They have joined ambitious ZIFA Bulawayo Division Two side Nabals. “He (Maphosa) brought his papers before the national lockdown and the club was still assessing whether to hire him or not,’’ sources said. “He is a Highlanders son who understands the culture and values of the organisation and now that the club has no junior coaches, the matter is now even more urgent.’’ Maphosa refused to comment when contacted yesterday. But, a close associate said he wanted to be an understudy to Melusi Mabaleka Sibanda in the Bosso 90 that plays in the ZIFA Southern Region Division One League. “I am sure you are aware that umemba (Maphosa) attended some coaching courses during his last years with Bulawayo Chiefs. “His desire was to work with Mabaleka in the developmental side but now that all the junior coaches have left, he might have to reconsider that and take up one of the head coach’s role, if offered the job that is,” said the associate. Highlanders chairman, Kenneth Mhlophe, told our sister publication, Sunday News, over the weekend, that the club were eager to engage junior coaches as soon as possible. He said they will cast their nets within the Highlanders family. “At the moment, the struggle is we are under the challenging times caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, with reduced income for most people and businesses, but we are eager to ensure all is in order for our juniors,” he said. The Highlanders juniors coaches were funded with proceeds from the gate takings realised from the first team’s matches. There are no league games right now, as all sporting activities are grounded due to the pandemic, with growing indications football action was likely going to roll into life in August this year.