The Herald Arts Reporter
South Africa-based Zimbabwean author and motivational speaker Melody Heaven has released a gospel track entitled “More Lord” to give people hope during the Covid-19 pandemic. The song, which was recorded by Kingdom Concepts and produced by Dumi Fortunes, is set to inspire people to soldier on in hard times. In an interview with The Herald, Heaven, who grew up in Budiriro, said the song was inspired by deep societal settings. “‘More Lord’ is a song which I composed during a deep moment of worship one night. We were done with a session for that night, but I felt the urge to keep pressing on. “It was from that moment of overflow that the words for this song came trickling in my mind. “I love telling that story because I think it shows the power of waiting on God after prayer or worship and allowing him to fill us up. I believe the Lord gave us this song then, for such a time as this,” she said. “I have a passion to empower people with the knowledge that when we cultivate our relationship with God and understand our position in him, we become extraordinary. I am a professional accountant by trade and a creative singer by night. “The song ‘More Lord’ is one of my expressions of that assignment and I believe in my calling musically,” she said. Heaven added that local gospel artistes will always have an upper hand in producing songs that truly minister to people at home. “They have an understanding of the market and the audience better than others outside and we can never take that away from them. “I do believe though that there is always special grace if the assignment for a particular song is meant to cross cultures and geographical barriers,” said Heaven. Asked about her role models, Heaven said she is inspired by Janet Manyowa and Nigeria’s Sinach. “I have many women in music I look up to who include Sinach and Ada Ehi Moses who have been great inspirations to my work. In Zimbabwe, I adore Janet Manyowa. “I truly invested much time and dedication, not essentially aiming to align with a certain genre. All we were concerned about was replicating how we received this song on the night God gave it to us.” The song is available on social media platforms which include Youtube, Spotify, iTunes and Google Play among others.