The Herald Veronica Gwaze For more than a decade, Zimbabwe’s first blade athlete Pride Mafira would not be registered as one of the country’s many athletes for one reason or the other. In a classic tale like that of Jesus Christ in the Bible, the spirited sportsperson became more revered and worshipped elsewhere except in his own country. It was only until early this year that he was able to register after several recommendations including that of the doctor who amputated him when he was only six months old. Later this year, the T44/F44 was ready to participate at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. At a time that he should have been through with the registration process and when he should have been already on the field doing what he loves most, the coronavirus infectious disease (Covid-19) placed a damper on his aspirations. The global Covid-19 outbreak that has so far claimed more than 200 000 lives, bringing sports to a halt, derailed Mafira’s dreams of showcasing his talent locally. “When I received a call to say that finally I was to be fully registered to compete in local competitions it was the best news I had ever heard. “I always looked forward to that day and the longer it took somehow it really affected me, “Now I was ready, I looked forward to a colourful season and unfortunately like before, something had to come on the way and this time it had to be a global pandemic,” he said. Mafira was born with a missing right leg fibula bone. The condition is hereditary although none of his known family members has it. At six months, the former Chinotimba Primary and current Prince Edward High School student was amputated. Born in a relatively poor background, his father, Fredrick, at one of the sporting events in Victoria Falls met Jim Cahill, an American right leg amputee. Cahill later invited Mafira to America. After helping Mafira secure his first blade, Cahill also assisted the father enroll and train as a Prosthetic technician so that he could later make blades for his own son. “Life was never easy. During training my father made a blade for me which I used for two years. “It was only in 2016 that I got my first proper blade which motivated me to participate at South Africa’s Nedbank Championships. “That was a huge point in my life. I was an amateur but South African Athlete Arnou Fourie spotted potential in me and handed the gold medal that he had won that day to me — I realized I could go far,” said Mafira. In 2017, the aspiring Prosthesis surgeon won the Nedbank Championships under-16 gold for 100-metre sprints and a silver medal in high jump. Last year, he was a guest athlete at the Victoria Falls Econet sponsored marathon before later qualifying on to the Prince Edward wood ball team. And this year, he hoped to be part of the various marathon competitions around the country as well as take part in other competitions. “This was going to be a lit year for me; I was working hard because I hope to charm many. “It would be a different year; there is nothing that hurts so much than be recognized elsewhere except in your own country. “I know there are many like me out there. They should remain determined. The time will come but later I would want to consider sports administration as a job because I understand how it feels like to be an athlete especially for those in my or similar situation,” he said. Currently Mafira is training at home in Victoria Falls and hopes to bounce back in form when sporting events resume.