The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE Premier Soccer League could allow clubs to register more than 30 players for what is set to be a crash 2020 Premiership season. The new season, which was scheduled to get underway in March, is on hold due to the coronavirus epidemic. But, with the ZIFA Emergency Committee provisionally setting August/September as the tentative period in which football activities could resume in this country, PSL clubs could be required to play after every three days, if the season is to finish in January or February 2021. With PSL chief executive, Kenny Ndebele, having already hinted the ZIFA Emergency Committee’s decision didn’t suggest a permanent change of season to the August-May calendar, the fixtures would have to be heavily compressed. That would mean players will be exposed to injuries and general exhaustion. And the PSL are understood to have already worked out a plan to allow clubs to register up to 35 players. All the teams, save for Herentals, beat the March 31 deadline to submit their lists of 30 players for the 2020 season to the PSL. But they could be allowed to amend, and increase, the number of players on their rosters. A PSL source, who declined to be named, yesterday said the league were making engagements to allow teams to increase their player registration lists. “It’s still in the infancy but, trust me, the Premier Soccer League have already started engaging the clubs on the possibility of increasing the number of players to be registered for the 2020 season,” said the source. “The PSL seem to be alive to the fact that a crash Premiership programme will expose players to high injury risks. “As it stands, the league is likely to kick off in August up to January or February 2021, because shifting the season to the August-May period will certainly not be feasible.” PSL spokesperson, Kudzai Bare, said the most important thing now was to ensure people stayed healthy. “Remember, we are dealing with a global pandemic that has claimed the lives of thousands of people,’’ she said. “It is important that we play our part as citizens and follow the Government’s guidelines on curbing the spread of the virus. “It’s only after it has been contained that we can talk of football. The health and safety of players, officials and fans and everyone involved is more important.” Bare said the league will stand guided by authorities, including the Government, on the way forward. “We will be guided by the relevant stakeholders and the Government of Zimbabwe on the matter,’’ she said. “At the moment, every citizen must play their part, follow the health guidelines and take the necessary precautions to avoid spreading the virus. “Remember, no game is worth a single life.”