The Herald Herald Reporter
Police have dismissed as false, social media reports suggesting that the convoy of First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa was involved in an accident on Thursday. Her convoy passed the accident scene a few minutes after a seven-year-old girl had been hit by a car and stopped to assist and ensure the child was taken to hospital. National police spokesman Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi urged the media to get the correct facts. The reports were triggered by an accident in Kwekwe on Thursday that involved Zvishavane-Ngezi MP, Cde Mawite Dumuzweni. Asst Comm Nyathi, giving details of that accident, said that at 7am, Cde Dumuzweni was driving a Fiat Twin Cab, registration Number AEV4911, along the Harare-Bulawayo Road towards Gweru. “On approaching the 210km peg, the vehicle hit a seven-year-old minor who was crossing the road from the western direction to the east while pushing a toy. The girl sustained serious head injuries and was initially taken to Kwekwe General Hospital and later transferred to Gweru General Hospital.” Asst Comm Nyathi said the First Lady’s convoy only stopped to assist. “The convoy only passed through the scene after the road traffic accident had already taken place with the First Lady offering assistance and sympathy to the victim. Her convoy was not involved in the road traffic accident at all,” he said. Cde Dumuzweni confirmed that he was the one involved in the accident and the First Lady’s convoy only stopped to assist the injured child. “Indeed, I was involved in an accident on Thursday on my way from Harare to Zvishavane. The motorcade stopped to render assistance to the injured child who lay on the tarmac. This was within minutes of the accident having occurred. “The First Lady’s security personnel helped me to put the child in the car and ferry her to hospital,” he said. Cde Dumuzweni said it was wrong for people to circulate falsehoods. He said it was regrettable to see the First Lady’s name being dragged in the mud for something she was not involved in. “I am sorry that the First Lady’s reputation is now being soiled because of the accident I was involved in. I actually wish to thank her for stopping her convoy and facilitating that the child be taken to the hospital. “Even when she stopped she was not aware that it was a Member of Parliament who had been involved in an accident. As a mother, she was pained to see an injured child lying on the road hence the assistance,” he said. He further said the First Lady instructed one of her vehicles to block the road to avoid other cars from running over the child. “When the First Lady’s convoy stopped I was still in a state of shock and the child was lying in a pool of blood. I did not know what to do and decided to wait for the police and ambulance, but Amai suggested that the child be rushed to hospital. “She actually ordered one of her vehicles to block the road to avoid other cars from running over the child, while other security personnel rushed to call the police who were at the nearest roadblock. Once again I would like to thank the First Lady for the assistance she rendered,” he said. He said he was assisting with medication for the child who has since been transferred to the Intensive Care Unit at Mpilo Hospital in Bulawayo.