The Herald LUSAKA. — The Football Association of Zambia have confirmed to the Confederation of African Football they intend to resume their domestic football season next month, subject to approval by health authorities in the country. CAF had set Tuesday as the date by when countries should confirm whether they will continue or stop their domestic seasons suspended to curb the spread of the covid-19. With 10 rounds of games remaining in the main Zambian league, where a number of Zimbabwean players feature, any of the top five sides could win the title as they are separated by a one point margin. FAZ President Andrew Kamanga has told BBC Africa that in such a situation the best way forward is to complete the league. “We want the champion to come out of the pitch, rather than a boardroom decision,” he said. He, however, said any resumption will depend on if the pandemic subsides, and it will be guided by health authorities in Zambia. “We are mindful of the corona challenge — we would not want to compromise the lives of footballers, officials or other people involved in the game. Ultimately the overriding point is there is no life worth loosing on account of football.” The Zambia Super League was suspended on 20 March, as a precaution in curbing the spread of the deadly virus. It is a very tight race with the leading pack of five separated by a margin of only one point. Forest Rangers are top on the table with 46 points from 24 games. Second placed Napsa stars have played one more game than the third, fourth and fifth teams; which means cancellation of the league would be very complicated. Even 10th placed side Zanaco have a chance of a top four finish and an opportunity to take part in continental competitions, as they have three games at hand. So far seven African countries have ended their leagues prematurely due to Covid-19. The Ethiopian Football Federation announced this week that all league competitions in the country had been cancelled due to Coronavirus pandemic. The decision was arrived at following a discussion in person and via video conference with all respective parties, including the Ethiopian Premier League. ‘’Considering the country is under a state of emergency and the unpredictability of the coronavirus outbreak, we have decided to cancel this year’s all league games,” read a statement from the executive committee of the federation. Ethiopia has recorded 140 positive cases of the virus. Following the cancellation, the season has been declared null and void with no promotions or relegations of teams. Ethiopia will also not have a representative at next year’s CAF Champions League and CAF Confederations Cup. By the cancellation of the league Fasil Kenema was top of the league with 30 points from 17 matches, Mekele 70 Enderta were one point behind Fasil in second place. Mekelle 70 Enderta are the 2019 champions. The federation has also decided that teams should keep players whose contract come to an end by 30 June 2020. Meanwhile, English League One and League Two could be abandoned as soon as next week with a fear growing that the majority of clubs do not want to carry on, according to reports. While the English Football League have consistently said they are committed to finishing the 2019-20 campaign, it is being reported that the issue of ending the season below the Championship will be raised next week. A vote will then be held during a conference call meeting after clubs were informed of the intention to put it to a vote. The Telegraph reported the EFL have informally canvassed opinion and it appears to show there is a clear desire not to play out the rest of the season. The decision would not involve clubs in the Championship, where Warriors defender Tendai Darikwa plied his trade for Nottingham Forest, as the EFL are hopeful they will still play the season to a conclusion in the second-tier. As few as three League One sides, according to the report, are keen to play the rest of their games. There is also a threat of legal action from some clubs if they are made to play on during the coronavirus crisis. Clubs are concerned both about health and the potentially ruinous cost of playing games behind closed doors. It has been estimated by Oakwell Sports Advisory that it could cost a minimum of £700 000 each. There have also been discussions about just playing out play-offs to cover both promotion and relegation, although there is resistance to this concept. The vote would need a 75 per cent majority to carry out, and the EFL would then have to decide how to settle promotion and relegation — which is set to go ahead across the leagues. EFL chairman Rick Parry warned the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport select committee on Tuesday that voiding relegation from the Premier League would be a ‘breach of the tripartite agreement between us, the Premier League and the FA. It could lead, potentially, to legal action. As it stands, the EFL prefers deciding promotion and relegation through a points per game basis, although this is regarded as controversial. — BBC Sport/Mailonline.