The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Local teen gospel singers affectionately known as, “The Jesus Project” (TJP) are fighting for top spot on Star FM Gospel chart show. The inter-denominational group which recently released its single, “Ipapo Pamuchinjikwa” is on cloud nine with the track currently riding high on different stations. The single gives hope to their peers and families on the coronavirus pandemic. The group is made up of teenagers between the ages of 12 and 19 from different schools, among them Wise Owl, St Dominic’s Chishawasha, Holy Ghost Bible School, Best Choice College and Wisdom Centre. The founder and creative director of TJP, Brenton Shoko, also known as “Brent Kudakwashe”, urged fans to vote for the song on the chart show as this means a lot to them because it would be an achievement. “We want to maintain number one. Last week we dropped to number six. This means a lot to us considering we are on lockdown and as you know the excitement with teenagers once they achieve something,” explains Shoko. “Our music is fresh and our social media pages are on fire too. Imagine competing with greats like Janet Manyowa, Tembalami, Pastor G and Kuda Mutsvene among others.” Shoko says because of the lockdown they have been greatly affected as it is difficult to rehearse. “Children are disturbed by this pandemic. We are staying at home for us to keep safe. We are a band and it is difficult for us to move from one place to another. “We have shelved our second 10-track-album titled, ‘At the Feet of the Master,’ due to the global Covid-19 pandemic. “We only dropped two songs so far, ‘Haakurasise’ and ‘Kutaura Chokwadi’, which will help market the album. It was produced by Nigel Nyangombe at Your Sound Studios,” he says. Of the 12 members of the group, 10 are conducting solo performances on social media. “Those who stay close are meeting and continuing to entertain their fans. They go on our social media page and say some motivationals, giving inspiration to other teens. They even do renditions of their favourite songs,” he explains. Their wish, given a chance, is to collaborate with the likes of Janet Manyowa, Tembalami, Minister Michael Mahendere and Kuda Mutsvene. “We once performed at a show where some of the great gospel singers were present and they were charmed by our performances. It is just that we are teenagers and still trying to make it in the game, but hopefully soon a big collaboration will be in the making. With Jesus everything is possible,” he explains. Two years ago, the group made an impact on gospel scene as they turned heads with their debut seven-track album titled “Tales of the Cross” which had songs like “Thicker than Blood”, “Ipapo” and “Apo paCalvary” among others. Shoko says the group’s objective is to support teenagers’ education through music. “The teenagers that make up The Jesus Project group come from different backgrounds and different denominations. “They are united by a common cause of singing and motivating their peers and everyone out there with their music.” “Their music catalogue comprises not just gospel music, but inspirational songs that encourage other children and teens to speak out against child abuse and to read books and strive for a better future.” Shoko said the teenagers receive mentorship from professional music tutors and all the members desired to pursue music careers in future.