The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO HIGHLANDERS are yet to start the hunt for junior coaches to replace those who quit en-masse. Dan Ngwenya was the last coach to walk out of the Bulawayo giants camp. Reports had indicated former midfielder, Mthulisi Maphosa, had expressed interest in guiding the Bosso juniors. However, he is said to be having second thoughts about taking the plunge. The Bulawayo giants were left with no junior coaches after Gift Lunga Jnr, Sizabantu Khoza and Ngwenya all resigned due to unattainable working conditions. Ngwenya was originally the designated Under-14 coach with Khoza in charge of the Under-16 and Lunga Jnr in charge of Under-18s. When Lunga and Khoza left, Ngwenya took charge of all the age-group junior teams while Melusi Mabaleka Sibanda remained with the developmental side, Bosso 90, which plays in the ZIFA Southern Region Division One League. Lunga Jnr was the first to throw in the towel last year and was followed by Khoza this year with Ngwenya also deciding to call it quits. This left the Highlanders supporters worried that their revered junior policy was crumbling. However, club chairman, Kenneth Mhlophe, said they were not abandoning the junior teams and will soon hunt “within the Highlanders family” and reports emerged that Maphosa was keen on the job. “The better part of the club’s activities, including training sessions of junior teams, are on lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “It will make no sense to rush and appoint coaches who might start working around August, however, this does not mean that the need to fill the void is being overlooked. “The void will be filled,” said the  Highlanders media relations officer Ronald Moyo. Meanwhile, sources said Maphosa was now considering against joining the club after getting an offer from a team outside Bulawayo who have promised him a good package. “It turns out Maphosa wasn’t aware why those guys (Bosso junior coaches) left and when he got wind that it was largely to do with remuneration, which was said to be very low in the prevailing economic environment, he got second thoughts. “He, too, is a family man and can’t offer his services for a dime despite the fact that he loves Highlanders. “An offer has already come through from somewhere else,” said the source.