The Herald NEW YORK. — Grand Slam great Martina Navratilova says the coronavirus pandemic means “it’s time lost” for the likes of Serena Williams, who is still trying to cement herself as the greatest women’s player ever. Williams remains an agonising one more major win away from matching Margaret Court’s women’s record on 24. Navratilova, who won 59 Grand Slam titles in total, believes the sport’s shutdown is bound to have an adverse effect on those building their legacies as they prepare to exit the sport. In an interview with Laureus.com, Navratilova said: “For players like Roger Federer and Serena Williams, it’s time lost. “Particularly Serena, Wimbledon being her best chance to break Margaret Court’s record. She’s stuck on 23 and tries to get to 24, maybe 25. “It’s an opportunity lost when you’re not getting any younger. If I was sitting in that position I’d be going nuts that I can’t play. “Everybody’s in the same boat, but for the old players like Roger and even Rafa (Rafael Nadal) and particularly Serena, it’s more difficult, no doubt about that.” Navratilova won nine Wimbledon singles titles and achieved her last success at the All England Club in 2003, when she teamed up with Leander Paes to win the mixed doubles crown at the age of 46 years and eight months. She revealed the coronavirus-induced lockdown means this will be the first year that she has not been in London for the Wimbledon Championships. Navratilova added: “For tennis players, at New Year, we always toast Wimbledon. I have been coming to Wimbledon since I was 16. I have not missed one of them. “Now it’s the first time without Wimbledon and I’m itching to get on a plane and just touch the grass.” And the deadly coronavirus pandemic which has spread around the world, has devastated sport. Not just for those expecting to compete, but for those whose life always had a familiar pattern at this time of year. None more so than tennis legend and Laureus Academy member Navratilova. Navratilova is in lockdown in her home in Florida and says she is coping with the situation, but saddened that she will not be at Wimbledon for the first time since 1973, now that the Grand Slam event has been called off. And she is also seriously worried about many of the children and young adults who attend Laureus Sport for Good programmes around the world who may be vulnerable to the impact of coronavirus. In an interview with Laureus.com, Navratilova, winner of 59 Grand Slam titles, said: “For tennis players, at New Year’s, we always toast Wimbledon. I have been coming to Wimbledon since I was 16. I have not missed one of them. Now it’s the first time without Wimbledon and I’m itching to get on a plane and just touch the grass. “Just to be there, just to ground yourself. Boris (Becker), particularly, and myself, have always had a love affair with Wimbledon and I think the fans know it. Wimbledon transcends tennis and transcends sport. “At these times, I think it also makes us realise how much sport is a luxury and we were so lucky that we were actually playing it for a living, but everybody misses it, it’s still such a big part of the fabric of our lives. “Only war has stopped major tournaments happening, now we have this pandemic and for players like Roger Federer and, of course, Serena Williams, it’s time lost. Particularly Serena, Wimbledon being her best chance to break Margaret Court’s record. She’s stuck on 23 and tries to get to 24, maybe 25. It’s an opportunity lost, when you’re not getting any younger. If I was sitting in that position I’d be going nuts that I can’t play. “Everybody’s in the same boat, but for the old players like Roger and even Rafa Nadal and, particularly, Serena Williams, it’s more difficult, no doubt about it. I sympathise with them, because this is an enemy you can’t rehab, you can’t fight against, you just hope it will go away and we can play next year. “Novak Djokovic is right behind Roger and Rafa chasing the major titles, but I think the one that’s most affected would be Roger Federer because he’s the eldest by quite a bit. But you have to deal with it. As Billie Jean King said ‘champions adjust.” — AFP.