The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea have not set a time frame for N’Golo Kante’s return to training and would be open to allowing the France international to miss the rest of the English Premiership season. Kante took part in Tuesday’s session, but was absent on Wednesday and Thursday amid concerns about his health during the coronavirus crisis. The Premier League is intent on resuming by the middle of next month, despite the fears raised by an increasing number of players, including the likes of England international Danny Rose and Watford captain Troy Deeney. Kante passed out in front of teammates at Chelsea’s training ground back in March 2018, while the 29-year-old’s brother died of a heart attack two years ago. The former Leicester City star’s decision to skip training was given the unequivocal backing of is manager Frank Lampard and, according to The Sun, Chelsea will continue to lend their full support and could even permit Kante to miss the rest of the Premier League campaign. Chelsea have nine fixtures left to play and, with a three-point advantage over Manchester United, are currently in the box seat to cement the final Champions League qualifying place. Kante’s season had already been interrupted by series of niggling injuries. Earlier this month Lampard admitted he felt sorry for his overworked midfielder and had been hopeful that an extended break would afford the World Cup winner an opportunity to regain full fitness. He told BT Sport: “N’Golo Kante has played four or five incredible seasons in terms of his individual success and he’s been used quite rightly by his managers a lot. “This season he’s played only about 40% of our games and even then it’s been difficult for him and I’ve really felt for him on an individual level. He’s been a huge miss for us. “We obviously need N’Golo Kante back in our team, one of the best players in the world. I knew that before I became manager of Chelsea and know that now from working with him. “I haven’t been able to have him much this year and of course going forward we of course want him fit and raring to go.”— Metro.