The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS have given a stern warning to their new forward Michelle Katsvairo for his May 11 breach of lockdown orders imposed by the Government and the club. The former Chicken Inn, Kaizer Chiefs and Ngezi Platinum forward was seen in the company of Rodreck Mutuma, who is now plying his trade in the Democratic Republic of Congo, attending a social football match in Harare’s Budiriro suburb. Bosso described the breach as “unfortunate” and said they will carry investigations as they had instructed their players to religiously adhere to the lockdown orders. “The manager engaged Katsvairo who said he was not heavily involved as suggested but was watching from a distance. “Nevertheless, he was given a strong warning and told to observe lockdown procedures,” said Bosso media relations officer Ronald Moyo. However, even if the player never played, sporting and recreational activities were still banned which meant all those who took part in the event (players and or spectators) were in breach of  a Government order. This week in Old Luveve, another Highlanders striker, was spotted around the suburb without the mandatory face mask. The warning given to Katsvairo by his employers comes at a time SuperSport United striker Thamsanqa Gabuza faces a salary deduction for not obeying lockdown rules in South Africa. He was arrested for alleged speeding. According to KickOff.com, the former Orlando Pirates forward was arrested over the weekend for clocking 213km/h on the N1 highway near Sandton. SuperSport United chief executive, Stan Mathews, told the KickOff.com the club were dealing with the matter internally. “I can’t comment on this for now other than to say we are dealing with the matter internally and the player faces a disciplinary process post June 1 at Level Three lockdown. “We regard this alleged violation in a very serious light. “All our players were guaranteed their salaries on two priority conditions; that they obey the lockdown restrictions and that they post their daily fitness, football or social media uploads as requested. “The player will be given an opportunity to present his case and the merits of the case will guide the process,” Mathews is quoted by the online publication.