The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Rugby president, Aaron Jani, says the need for continuity won the day following the re-election of Bill Beaumont to continue at the helm of World Rugby. The 68-year-old defeated his former deputy, ex-Argentina skipper Agustin Pichot, by 28 votes to 23 following the announcement of the election results on Saturday. Jani said Zimbabwe, through Africa Rugby, were in full support of the Briton. The ZRU boss said Zimbabwe and the continent have a lot to celebrate following the election of Africa Rugby chairman, Khalid Babbou, to the powerful World Rugby executive committee. This was the first time that Rugby Africa has representation on the highest decision-making organ of rugby’s global governing body. It has since been revealed that Babbou voted for Beaumont on behalf of the continent. “Obviously, we had an input into the election process,” said Jani. “Our vote was carried through Rugby Africa because as Rugby Africa exco we voted and agreed on our candidate for the World Rugby elections. “We are happy rugby has opted for continuity by voting Beaumont back in office. “But, the most important thing for us, as Zimbabwe and Africa, is that for the first time in 35 years we now have a seat and a day in the affairs of World Rugby.” Beaumont was first elected president in July 2016, succeeding Bernard Lapasset. The former England international vowed to deliver meaningful change. There were 51 votes, made up of three each for England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France, Italy, South Africa, New Zealand, Australia, Argentina; two each for the regions of Africa, Asia, Europe, North/Central America, South America, Oceania; and an additional two each for Japan and one each for Romania, Georgia, Uruguay, USA, Canada, Samoa, Fiji. Beaumont achieved a first-round simple majority of 28-23 against Pichot in the election which was independently managed by PwC. France Rugby Federation president Bernard Laporte was elected unopposed as the new vice-chairman. A new executive committee was also confirmed with seven new members elected to join the chairman, vice-chairman, chief executive and two independents Angela Ruggiero and Lord Mervyn Davies. The results will officially be confirmed at World Rugby’s annual meeting of Council on 12 May after which the new leadership’s four-year mandate will begin. Beaumont immediately called on the game to become more united than ever and get working immediately to achieve sustainable growth in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. Zimbabwe Rugby have also been hit by the coronavirus pandemic which has not given Jani and his colleagues a chance to settle following their re-election in March. The association have been forced to suspend domestic fixtures and, on the international platform, there is no chance the Sables will be able to defend the Victoria Cup. However, there is still hope for the SuperSport Rugby Challenge Cup scheduled to be held in South Africa later this year. “The Covid-19 pandemic has been a major setback in terms of play. But, on the flip-side, it’s also an opportunity for us to put our house in order. “There are a number of administrative issues that needed to be worked on so that come 2021 we will be good to go. “But fixtures have been a difficult issue. Most of the events are a complete write off but if the situation permits, we are still hoping to finish the Under-21 league because there was one or two rounds left when the games were suspended. “There is a big challenge with regards to the provincial league games but there is still hope for the SuperSport Rugby Challenge Cup. ‘’We have been in discussions with South Africa Rugby Union and they are saying maybe by August or September games might be played,” said Jani. To keep operations going in the absence of the game, Jani revealed they were also eyeing a bailout from the recently announced $100 million relief fund for distressed unions. This issue is likely to be discussed further at the upcoming annual Council meeting on May 12. Beaumont indicated in his acceptance speech that the Covid-19 threat also takes priority.