The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Welcome to the month of May! How is the lockdown treating you? It is better to stay safe and I hope you are indoors, busy cleaning and glued to your television. Those with access to Netflix are almost through with watching their favourite series. So far, the favourite place to be is your wardrobe, if you are a fashion fanatic. This is the right time to make it a home, repaint the wardrobe, rearrange and even getting rid of the unwanted and unworn clothes. Did you know that women wear just 20 percent of their wardrobe 80 percent of the time? You will be surprised there are some clothes that you have spent a decade without wearing. Start packing and donate the unwanted clothes. The month of May is very important in the fashion world because of the biggest fashion extravaganza gala dubbed the Met Gala. It is held annually by the New York’s Costume Institute since the 70s, the first Monday of May. Fashion designers, celebrities and musicians received the news of its postponement last month because of the coronavirus pandemic. Too bad as most iconic stars like Rihanna, Beyonce, Lady Gaga and Jennifer Lopez among others will have to shelve their dresses this year. I hope the theme still remains the same. The coronavirus pandemic is still continuing and local fashion designers have teamed up to make designer facial masks. Kudos to popular designers who include Fatima, Jo’s Couture, Joyce Chimanye, Tarisayi and Ruby’s Touch and Designs among others for coming up with “Masks4Zim” concept. Some say the masks made of cloth are much healthier and can be washed hence less expensive. It shows that the lockdown is giving people creative ideas. However, since some have resorted to exercising and training at home thanks to digital platforms such as Zoom where you can see your trainer and other participants training too. Another reason for your lack of motivation during the lockdown, for not exercising might just be your, ‘workout wardrobe’. Seriously — what is more unattractive than peeling yourself off the sofa to sweat it out in unmatching socks, a baggy old t-shirt and a pair of leggings that have lost their shape? Remember the story of the women who wake up early in the morning to sweep the yard while wearing night dresses and some pulling socks wrapped on their head. Old workout gear tends to result in less workouts, so if you are keen to exercise more over the next few months, then you should treat yourself to a whole new wardrobe. United Sates celebrity fashion editor Charlie Teather said that a new kit not only subliminally motivates you to get up off your backside and go, but functional workout gear will also seriously enhance your performance. “No, really. We are not just saying it. And don’t worry — on-trend does not have to mean expensive. There are a whole host of brands out there selling stylish workout gear for appealing prices. Whether you are lifting weights, pounding pavements or taking online classes, you should have the right kit,” she said. Some of the trending workout fashion statements include, double layered running shorts, stretchy-jersey tops, three-quarter flatter leggings and some trainers. Like they always remind us that “Lightweight materials and well-designed active wear should feel like a second skin, ensuring you don’t feel restricted while you train. “Exercising in total comfort will allow you to solely concentrate on the task at hand, and workout to the best of your ability. Choosing clothing that allows full range of movement is incredibly important, so when choosing fitness clothing, pay close attention to the design and tailoring, opting for a seamless kit which won’t irritate your skin, or rub it”.