The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Rugby Union are mourning the death of the association’s former president David Morgan who died recently. Morgan, who was at the helm of the association twice in the 1980s, was described by ZRU president, Aaron Jani, as a top administrator who worked for “the good of the game” in the early years of Independence. He also served as the chairman of  Harare Sports Club. “The Zimbabwe Rugby Union president, Aaron Jani, is sad to announce the passing of David Morgan, a true and humble gentleman who was a long-time servant of the game of rugby in Zimbabwe,” the ZRU said in a statement. Morgan was president of the ZRU between 1981 and 1983 and then returned in 1986 for a three-year stint that ended in 1989. He was at the helm when Zimbabwe took part in its first World Cup in 1987. The Sables were invited as the African card after South Africa were disqualified from the tournament due to a sporting boycott adopted by the international community in response to apartheid. But, rugby, which had remained an elite sport for the most part of the decade, was beginning to open up to the black masses. In 1987, Richard Tsimba was the only black player in the World Cup squad. However, in 1991, there were four black players who included Tsimba, Bedford Chimbima, Honeywell Nguruve and Milton Nyala. Jani said the union will always cherish Morgan’s contributions in those early years. “David Morgan is a former president of the Zimbabwe Rugby Union and former chairman of Old Hararian’s Sports Club. “In these positions, David was a paragon of managerial excellence and both organisations thrived during his tenure. “His invaluable experience and advice will be greatly missed by all who work for the good of the game in Zimbabwe. May the Morgan family find comfort during this sad time.” Veteran coach and ex-ZRU director of rugby, Nsikelelo “Sykes’’ Sibanda, said Morgan had a fierce passion for the game. “To be honest, I had very limited contact with him because some of us were still in school when he was president of ZRU. “If my memory serves me well, at some point he must have taken up a post as patron of the union. “We would see him at the ZRU AGMs long back, he was very reserved but passionate about the game. He always wanted the best for everyone and for rugby in Zimbabwe,” said Sibanda.