The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
MAHWINDO Foundation yesterday provided some cheer to the CAPS United family after it donated roller meal, sugar, cooking oil and beans to the players. The Foundation, run by socialite Wanisai Mutandwa, cater for Arts and Sports and has taken a first step to assist football clubs. At a brief function, attended by players representatives Method Mwanjali and Ronald Chitiyo and a few club officials, the benefactor said she was supported by other partners to come up with the consignment. Although Mutandwa is a staunch Dynamos supporter, she said the Covid-19 pandemic needed a united front. “I grew up benefiting from the benevolence of others, especially my grandmother who raised me well,’’ she said. “She assisted Salvation Army League of Mercy in Seke area and I learnt a lot from her charity work. “I call upon other well-wishers to come on aboard. I was supported by other partners such as Pan Jap Motors chief executive, Bryton Ushendibaba, Danya Kalembwe and CAPS United fan George Manyaya, in coming up with this package. “We are looking at doing this to others clubs, including my club Dynamos, because this is not the time to look at club affiliation, we are going through a difficult time and we should try and assist everyone in the arts and sports sector.’’ Chitiyo thanked the Foundation for remembering the players during these tough times when football is on a long break. “We appreciate the effort made by the Foundation to remember footballers during this lockdown. The situation is not good with this Covid-19 crisis,” he said. “We are used to playing football and training. Football is our life but we are now staying at home doing nothing. “But, there is nothing we can do, it is a global situation and our staying safe, and healthy, is the most important thing at the moment. We are following the rules at home, maintaining social distance. Sometimes, I do train and we are always checking up on each other, on our club social media platforms, and encouraging each other.’’ CAPS United administration manager, Morton Dodzo, challenged other stakeholders to assist players. “The kind and generous gesture is commendable and will go a long way in complimenting the efforts of the club towards the well-being of its players. “As an institution, we appreciate the initiative and these efforts. “It should also be portrayed as a challenge to all the other sporting stakeholders, be it individuals or corporates, to also play a role, especially during this time, by supporting various sporting disciplines,” he said. Football has been classified under the high-risk category and is likely to take longer before it returns.