The Herald LONDON. — There were six positive tests for coronavirus across three Premier League clubs on Sunday and Monday, as the top flight prepares to resume in June. The unnamed players or staff who have tested positive will now self-isolate for seven days. A total of 748 players and staff from 19 clubs were tested. The remaining club did their tests on Tuesday so will be included in Saturday’s results. Squads started non-contact training from yesterday. The Premier League has been suspended since 13 March because of the Covid-19 pandemic, with 92 fixtures remaining. The league had previously identified 12 June for matches to possibly start again, but there is now an expectation this will need to be pushed back. “The Premier League is providing this aggregated information for the purposes of competition integrity and transparency,” it said in a statement. “No specific details as to clubs or individuals will be provided by the league and results will be made public in this way after each round of testing.” Clubs were permitted to test up to 40 personnel and some did not use their full allocation, while some samples are still to be processed. At Monday’s “Project Restart” meeting, English top-flight clubs agreed to stage one of the return-to-training protocols. As well as training in small groups of no more than five, sessions must last no longer than 75 minutes for each player. Social distancing must be adhered to. Official protocols sent to players and managers last week, and obtained by the BBC, revealed corner flags, balls, cones, goalposts and even playing surfaces will be disinfected after each training session. Ongoing measures in further guidance include twice-weekly testing as well as a daily pre-training questionnaire and temperature check. For the Premier League to complete the season, it could require about 40,000 privately conducted tests. The tests are being carried out by digital health company Prenetics. Avi Lasarow, chief executive of Prenetics EMEA (Europe Middle East Africa), told BBC Sport that “categorically” none of the tests the company will carry out for the Premier League could have been used by the NHS. “We of course do not impinge or take away from any testing the NHS is doing,” he said. “All the tests are privately sourced, as well as the other areas of the supply chains, so they are definitely not taking away from the NHS. “The government has an infrastructure capability which has been developed to scale up to mass testing volume. It is very clear that we can now see that happening and as an organisation if we were asked to provide additional services we would prioritise that.” Lasarow added that the tests are 98.8% accurate, which will improve with repeated testing of Premier League personnel, and that the company is able to turn around results in 48 hours. — BBC Sport.