The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
AFTER a quiet two months on the sporting scene, locals may have something to look forward to following Government’s decision to allow low-risk sport codes to resume their activities. Sport has been on hold worldwide since March following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic but, following the revised lockdown regulations in the country, several sport codes classified as low-risk are likely to resume some of their activities. They will have to follow the guidance provided by the responsible authorities. The Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation came up with a comprehensive framework on how to resume activities in the face of the pandemic after consultations with their stakeholders. And sport codes have been classified from low risk, medium risk and high risk.  Among the disciplines categorised as low-risk sports is archery, swimming, tennis, athletics, cycling, equestrian, gymnastics, rowing, golf, motor sports, chess and darts, which are not contact sports, and maintaining physical distance is possible. Cycling Zimbabwe president, Norman Bourne, said while their discipline was among the low-risk ones, they have to be careful on how they proceed as there were important aspects that needed to be addressed. “When people look at it as low-risk sport, when you first look at it, it is very easy to assess. But, there is still the sort of the protocol of racing and things like that. There are a few issues that we need to address, the proximity of riders in a peloton, how do you stop? “Fortunately, we don’t have too many riders in a competition at the moment. We only have a maximum of 40 riders, so it falls within the cut of not more than 50 people in a crowd. “But, at the same time, the social distancing when you have got people racing together, it’s to try and make sure you are keeping one-metre apart. “It’s going to be a challenge. So, what we have done is we have taken the COVID-19 protocol that’s been given to us to address and we will implement it as best as we can. I think, for now, we won’t be holding any competitions in the near future. “But, we will allow people to go for training sessions. I have actually spoken to the clubs and I have said to them no competitions will take place yet until we have a better idea of the situation,” said Bourne. National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president, Tendai Tagara, said it’s a gradual process and they will resume their programme with small numbers and ensure the environment was safe for all those involved. “We will start by competitions and by invitations, staggered lanes for sprinters and small training groups as well as mini-competitions in regions and districts,’’ he said. “We will look at limited numbers in club competitions. “Road runners are to run under the same physical contact advices and involve health departments. Race organisers and NAAZ are to work close on preparation, ban and report to police organisers, athletes and officials who participate in unsanctioned road races.’’ For swimming, its off-season, but top swimmers need to remain in training and Zimbabwe Aquatic Union president, Mary Kloppers, revealed they had already submitted their plans to the Sports Commission and were waiting for approval. “We are very happy with the decision. Swimming is a non-contact sport and therefore social distancing is much easier to maintain,’’ said Kloppers. “It’s very important for our top athletes to get back to their fitness level from before lockdown. Many of our juniors would not normally be training now. “However, because many other sport codes are not allowed to operate, we expect interest from the juniors as well. Swimming is good for cross training. “Swimming takes place in chlorinated water, which is an added bonus as far as sanitation is concerned. All standard extra safety precautions, such as temperature checking, social distancing and not sharing equipment will be strictly adhered to,” said Kloppers. Tennis Zimbabwe have also made their submission to the SRC. These requirements will cover players who are registered with the national association and have an official clearance letter. It won’t be business as usual as the associations do all they can to protect their athletes, coaches and everyone involved, and it requires collective effort to avoid incidences that may be detrimental to sport amid this deadly pandemic.