The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA are set to write to CAF advising them FC Platinum will represent the country again in the next edition of the Champions League campaign. The platinum miners won the right to represent Zimbabwe after completing a hattrick of league titles last year. CAF this week gave their 54-member associations a May 5 deadline to confirm the status of their leagues in order to plan for the next edition of the interclub competitions. CAF want to know how the associations intend to finalise the current season that has been hit by the coronavirus. “We have received the letter from CAF and they want to know the status of our league, but ours ended last year and a new campaign was supposed to start in March,’’ ZIFA spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela, said. ‘‘But due to the coronavirus lockdown it has been postponed until such a time it is safe to start playing football again.’’ “That’s exactly what we are going to tell CAF in our response.’’ “Basically, the contents of that letter apply more to the leagues that are yet to wind up business and have been affected by the coronavirus.’’ “They want the information to plan for the next inter-club competitions, and we already know that defending champions FC Platinum will play in the next Champions League and the Confederation Cup representative was supposed to come from the Chibuku Super Cup.’’ FC Platinum, who made their debut in Champions League in 2012, have also represented Zimbabwe in the last three successive campaigns. Due to the changes in the CAF calendar, they have had to play three continental football campaigns inside two years. ZIFA are yet to settle for the Confederation Cup representatives after giants Highlanders turned down the ticket to represent the country. Bosso won the right to play in he tournament after lifting the Chibuku Super Cup last year. Gwesela said they will also update CAF that the domestic league will only start when it is safe to do so. The request by CAF has had football leaders scrambling for solutions. For instance, the Kenya Football Federation announced the cancellation of their league season and declaring Gor Mahia champions of the 2019/2020 season. FKF chief executive Barry Otieno confirmed the cancellation. “We will have to end the league now because the Covid-19 pandemic is still with us and CAF are asking for our response in eight days.’’ “In a nutshell, the league will not resume and we will use the rules in FKF books to declare the winner and teams to be relegated.’’ ‘‘We will pass the same to KPL so that they can implement the same,” said Otieno. Gor Mahia had a seven-point lead after 23 games over Kakemaga Homeboyz, who had played a game less. But some of the countries, which had no provision for force majeure in their football statutes, are likely to be caught up in a quandary. The probability of competitive football resuming any time soon remains low. Coronavirus is not showing signs of slowing down with over 3,2 million positive cases reported by yesterday and approximately 230 000 fatalities. Football leagues around the world, including the French Ligue 1, Belgium Pro League and the Dutch Eredivisie have already been cancelled. Mauritius has declared this season null and void and is seeking a fresh start when sporting events resume.