The Herald Court Correspondent
A 30-year-old Harare man stabbed and severely injured a foreign currency dealer with a knife on the head and chest before driving off with his money and luxury car. Tapiwa Joseph appeared before Harare magistrate Mrs Barbra Mateko on Tuesday facing attempted murder charges. He was remanded in custody to May 22 and advised to apply for bail at the High Court. The court heard that on May 8, Joseph phoned Pinius Munyongani saying he had a relative living in Gunhill, Harare, who had large sums of United States dollars in high value notes to convert to smaller denominations. It is alleged that Munyongani went to pick up Joseph from his home using his Mercedes Benz. They drove to a house still under construction that Joseph said was the home of his relative. He got out and went inside, leaving Munyongani outside the gate. The State further alleges that after a while, Joseph returned and told Munyongani that his relative was in a meeting and would join them in a few minutes, but that stretched to more than an hour. Joseph had to persuade the dealer to hold on a little longer, suggesting they drive further down the road to where there were no houses. While waiting for Joseph’s relative, Munyongani began counting his US$1 836 which he intended to convert for bigger denominations. But, the court heard, while Munyongani was counting the money, Joseph allegedly produced a knife and stabbed him once on the head and twice on the chest. Munyongani wrestled with Joseph and managed to snatch the knife from him and threw it away. It is alleged that Joseph tried to get hold on Munyongani’s neck but he was overpowered. Munyongani then jumped out of the car and started running towards a nearby house. Joseph gave chase, caught and tripped Munyongani, before striking him with a stone on the head. Joseph then ran back to Munyongani’s vehicle with the US$1 836 and drove away. Munyongani, the court heard, sought assistance from a nearby house and he gave the people there his father’s contact number. A report to the police was made, leading to Joseph’s arrest.