The Herald Entertainment Reporters This current lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus is not entirely gloomy. It has brought with it new levels of interactions that will be cherished post the pandemic. While various facets of interface have been reduced and the inevitable erosion of income from some sources spells doom for many, there is a silver lining to this cloud. There is a silver lining shining on the showbiz sector and many have embraced its brightness. This brightness has been brought by the rising popularity of online performances from various artistes. While live performances beamed live through various media prior to Covid-19 brought consolation to fans that would have physically failed to attend shows, the phenomenon has been boosted by lockdown conditions to unexpected levels of satisfaction and relief. Entertainment has always been a gateway alley in challenging eras. The following and feedback on Winky D’s live online performance on Wednesday exhibited how the current sole source of access to live performances has taken the social media community by storm. Winky D’s “Money Heist” costume on the set left unanswered questions about the connotative message he tried to deliver with the outfit, but the numbers watching the show were just reflective of the growing popularity of online shows. Most fans that have been following live online performances said the growing phenomenon gives them a different feeling from the physical shows, which is refreshing. Most followers appreciated the advantage of direct feedback through comments while others said watching the shows with their families in the comfort of their homes was a new dimension that they will cherish even after the lockdown. A fan who followed Mathias Mhere’s live performance last weekend said watching the show was an exciting family experience. “We had a good time to watch the live show in the comfort of our home as a family.” “We have attended family shows together before, but the experience was completely different. We could talk and make comments about the event as Mhere performed. These live online shows have brought a different dimension,” said Oscar Mhonda of Hatfield. Another fan who watched Macheso and Freeman’s set live on Zimpapers Television Network said he enjoyed the exchange of comments via feedback on the channel and on various WhatsApp groups. “During the duo’s performance, people would make direct comments about their views on the act. Most people felt the guys were not in their best form, but I enjoyed the interaction that such platforms give. Even after the show, the discussions continued in different WhatsApp groups and there were good debates about the event. It feels great to be a participant in comments. It does not happen on that level at live shows,” said Taurai Sigauke on a social media post. Another commentator joked that it was his first time to watch Macheso live on stage while he was home and sober. “I have never watched Macheso’s live performance while at home with family and without a beer in hand. It was a different experience. “The slot was short and I think I will enjoy a longer performance more. I have been going through previously recorded shows with my family just to keep that new vibe alive,” said the               fan. However, there is a section of fans that still believes being physically present at a show is the best feeling. Such people are eagerly waiting for the complete end of the lockdown so that live shows can be permitted                       again. A number of other musicians including Janet Manyowa and The Charambas have already done live online shows while many others have promised similar gigs during this health crisis era.