The Herald Business Reporter
Local digital services provider, Tech24 Group, has tapped into Pakistan’s fast developing technology market to appoint tech business leader Haider Ali as their new chief operating officer (COO). The appointment is with effect from June 1, 2020. With extensive management experience spanning nearly two decades, Ali brings valuable leadership to Tech24’s executive team especially during the current period of rapid growth and change. The group said Ali will lead operations and direct the company’s finance, operations and administrative functions. He will also be responsible for the alignment and prioritisation of company investments and ensuring operational excellence across the company. Prior to his appointment at Tech24, Ali was the operations director of At Law Limited, which has operations in Pakistan, United States and Canada. Ali joins Tech24 with a wealth of call centre, operational and financial management experience at both early-stage and mid-sized companies acquired from his work with At Law Limited across the three countries,” said Tech24 business unit manager Keith Chakanetsa. “We are thrilled to have a steady hand at the operational helm as we continue to expand our product line and broaden our customer base. ALi is a seasoned and trusted leader who has a consistent track record of delivering results.” Said Mr Ali of his new appointment:  “Tech24 is experiencing accelerated growth and exploring new opportunities as well as the success of being the exclusive distributor of the Ameyo solution in Zimbabwe. “It is a tremendous pleasure and honour to join the Tech24 team at this senior leadership role working closely with the CEO Rinos Mautsa. “I take great satisfaction in delivering superior results to our clients, and to our internal team. The next phase of growth is on the horizon, and we’re well-positioned to accelerate into the future.” Meanwhile, the group’s marketing and business development manager Lydia Matengambiri said they will soon be launching a number of digital products to service the local market as results of the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “As the globe has become digital due the Covid 19 pandemic, we will be launching an e- learning solution to be used by universities, primary and secondary schools which is a great opportunity in these times. Education has to continue despite the situation. “We are also launching an e-commerce solution that will enable SMEs in the construction sector to reach clients across the globe. “In addition, we in the process of exploring BPO (business process outsourcing) opportunities as such Ali’s expertise in the areas will be greatly beneficial to this effect. He is uniquely qualified to drive strategic prioritisation and accountability within Tech24, with a laser-focus on operational excellence,” said Ms Matengambiri.