The Herald Arts Reporters It was a day of smiles, jubilation and ululation yesterday as artistes and disadvantaged residents in Harare got cash and groceries to help them fight the effects of Covid-19. Young musician King 98 led by example when he came to the rescue of fellow musicians and residents in the capital as a way of giving back to the community. The hip-hop singer, whose real name Ngonidzashe Dondo, said he felt obliged to assist fellow musicians and other people that shared their challenges due to coronavirus. Musicians who benefited include Progress Chipfumo, Sam Mataure and Gift “Shiga Shiga” Katulika. Shiga Shiga — popularly known for his hilarious lines as a chanter for Utakataka Express and other popular groups — sent an SOS through the media for assistance and his plight was heard by King 98. The young benefactor selected Chipfumo and Mataure to be recipients of his nobility because of their different disadvantaged conditions. They received food hampers worth $10 000 and cash amounting to US$100 each. King 98 and his team also donated to two disadvantaged elderly women from Rugare who were identified on Tilda Moyo’s talk-show on Star FM. In an interview with The Herald, South Africa-based King 98 said he understands the challenges that many people are going through because of the coronavirus pandemic. “It is not everyone who is privileged. I am currently in Zimbabwe on lockdown with my family. It is difficult time for everyone and we should stick to what we are told by health officials in order to stay safe. After plea by some artists on social media and in newspapers, I decided to donate some groceries so that they can have something on their tables with their families,” he said. King 98 said he had sacrificed some money that was meant for shooting of his upcoming video to assist his disadvantaged fellows. “I was going to shoot and release a new video sometime this period but, because of the lockdown, I decided to shelve the project and focus on working in studio. I decided to channel the money that was supposed to go to the video to charity work. We also heard a story of two elderly women on Tilda’s show who are suffering and struggling with life and we decided to help them,” he said. The 22-year-old singer urged stakeholders and those who can afford to assist artistes in this era. “In South Africa we have different platforms where we can sell our music and even to perform to make money while Zimbabwe is a bit different and this affects the industry very much. I urge those who can assist with whatever they can to come and assist artistes so that they just don’t lie idle and their talents are not lost,” he said. The “Wacko” hit maker said today he will travel to Chivhu to hand over groceries to 61 orphans as part of his lockdown projects. Meanwhile, beneficiaries thanked King 98 and said those with resources should feel challenged. “The disease is not ending anytime soon. The showbiz industry is greatly affected. Not all of us are able to host live shows on social media as that process requires a lot. We are suffering as musicians,” said Shiga Shiga. Chipfumo said he was grateful for the noble gesture from his fellow musician. “I am grateful to King 98. I was stuck and worried about taking care of my family. Now we can move but the situation remains the same in our industry, we rely much on stage-work and this is a challenging time for us,” he said. The event was graced by chairman of Promoters Association of Zimbabwe Josh Hozheri, show promoter Blessing Jeke and Star FM radio personality Phatisani Sibanda. “As promoters we are happy and at the same time challenged that something must be done to our musicians especially in this time of need. I applaud stakeholders and individuals who are taking their time to assist. This is their life and it has been affected,” said Hozheri.