The Herald Arts Reporter
While most local artistes have joined the bandwagon of using digital platforms to entertain their fans during the lockdown, some are still struggling to host shows online. Critics have questioned, are they technologically challenged or is it about not having funds to do it? Or some artistes are ignorant and lack creativity? South Africa-based rasta-kwasa musician, Dino Mudondo, took to social media to announce that his latest album “No Lumo” had been heavily affected by Covid-19 lockdown. Dino begged for money on his Facebook page saying he was stranded, calling for other artists to assist him. “I am writing this letter to you as a professional artiste with a huge begging bowl, asking for financial material, spiritual or any other support. It is our industry that was affected by the banning of gatherings, among others. You have noticed that many artists have been doing some social media shows to entertain. One still needs to pay for the WIFI and data for live streaming. “The little money I had saved for my new album launch and videos is slowly running out,” he begged. The “Chirangano Chedu” hitmaker expressed hope of returning home soon after the lockdown. “I was hoping to launch my album back home in Zimbabwe with the funds I would have raised during my live shows here in South Africa, but all plans got stuck because of the corona virus. “All my shows were cancelled. I could have launched it end of April but it was in vain. I was working on the album since last year,” he said. Dino’s eight-track album features urban grooves sensation Betty Makaya, Williom Tight, Pamela Zulu, Nox Guni and Tyfah Guni. The songs were produced by Oskid and Elcee Gweja. “I would have come back home promote the album and shoot videos,” he said. Dino relocated to South Africa searching for greener pastures. The pint-sized musician, however, said he was using the lockdown period to write songs for his next album. “I have been writing more songs since we are on lockdown. I enrolled at a college of music here in South Africa and currently studying production with hope to open my own recording studio. I hope to use my knowledge in helping my fellow Zimbabwean artists and help growing the music sector,” he said.