The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor A 35-YEAR-OLD pair of Air Jordan basketball trainers fetched a record-breaking US$560 000, at an online auction at the weekend, in a graphic illustration of the immense power of the business of sport. It also provided a reminder of how African football, in general, and Zimbabwean football, in particular, lags behind the real world where the business of sport has transformed itself into a multi-billion dollar industry. The pair of autographed shoes were used by Michael Jordan, considered by many as the greatest basketball player of all time, and one of the world’s finest sports-persons ever, during his rookie season in the National Basketball Association in 1985. Jordan later turned into an inspirational leader, regarded by some as a freak of nature, who dragged the Chicago Bulls to six NBA titles in a career in which he defied gravity and touched the heavens. The sale, conducted by auctioneers Sotheby’s was expected to fetch between US$100 000 and US$150 000, but ended up smashing the record for a pair of sports shoes. Nike also held the previous record after a pair of their 1972 Moon Shoes was sold for US$437 500. Jordan’s grand exploits with the Chicago Bulls have been brought back into the spotlight through the hugely popular Netflix documentary series “The Last Dance.” It is largely focused on what was happening behind-the-scenes, including some spectacular fallouts at the establishment, as Jordan and his Bulls chased their sixth NBA title. It follows him from his time as a kid, his family, the influence of his father on his career, how the tragic death of his dad badly affected him and his brief flirtation with baseball. The series has been a phenomenal commercial hit around the world and, at the beginning of this month, it overtook the Tiger King as the most in-demand documentary around the world. Selling the pair of the 1985 Air Nike shoes, at a time interest in both Jordan and the Bulls has again soared around the world -propelled by the documentary — was a master stroke. One of the shoes, the left one, is a size 13 and the other, the right one, is a size 13.5. That the pair of shoes fetched more than half a million dollars underlined the sheer power of the business of sport. And, it is also a reminder of how football, on the continent and in this country, trails far behind in tapping into this thriving industry. The statistics and comparison make for some grim reading: An Egyptian court had fined CAF US$6.2 million for signing that deal without going into an open tender while the Competitions Commission of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa ruled the agreement infringed competition rights. “Given the above developments, CAF had no choice but to terminate the agreement,” CAF said. “Termination of the agreement is the legal consequence of the judgments of Egyptian courts and the recommendations and imminent decisions of the CCM (Commission of the Common Market).” The tale of the pair of Nike shoes even gets more interesting when one brings domestic football into context: 