The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United president, Farai Jere, says his club attach equal value to all their fans but believes one of them, a barber, deserves special mention. The supporter has never missed any of the team’s league matches for the past seven years. The barber, Tafadzwa “Willow” Phiri, has kept all match day tickets and date-stamped photographs of himself that show he paid his way to watch all Makepekepe’s league matches since 2013. And Jere, who is also the PSL chairman, was charmed by his story after reading the 26-year-old’s love affair with CAPS United in The Herald on Wednesday. “This is incredible but we always tell the fans that we are not the owners of this club, instead, it is these supporters who own the team,” said Jere. “I would like to reiterate that our fans are all the same. We love them all, without them, CAPS United wouldn’t be as big a brand as it is today. “But, look, this lad is only a 26-year old barber and has a young family but, has never missed a match the team plays — whether home or away. “This means he has sacrificed a lot for the love of the team for the past seven years.’’ Jere said they will look into his issue. “I know he has been rewarded with the league title, which the team won back in 2016 and our subsequent fairytale run in the CAF Champions League a year later. “But, given his never-say-die spirit, and the all the sacrifices given he is only a barber who earns modest income, it’s something which needs to be appreciated. “We will sit down as management and look into it. It’s an incredible issue. We will have to deliberate and see what we can do for him. “Seriously, considering that he is only a barber and makes it a point to follow the team in Hwange or Kariba, is amazing.” Jere said there were many fans like Phiri. “We expect to always reward our fans for their loyalty by doing well,’’ said Jere. “Of course, there are three results in a football match — a win, draw or lose. I would like to comment the fans for knowing all this. “But, I want to promise that the team will do well this coming season and make them happy.”