The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
LEGEND George Shaya’s wife, Agnes, says she never enjoyed any match involving her husband, at least until the final whistle. Agnes said while she always supported her husband, the rough tackles in the game always unsettled her. “One thing I feared most was what what if he gets injured? “I enjoyed the goals, the brilliance and everything else, but, believe me, I didn’t quiet enjoy the game for obvious reasons,” she said. Although she always feared Shaya would get injured, she slowly got used to seeing all the kicks, blows and tackles her husband received. Through continued exposure to football, Agnes, just like her husband, developed an addiction for the game. Today, at their home in Glen Norah, Shaya – who had his leg amputated because of thrombosis – is struggling to live without the sport he and his wife love most. All football activities have been frozen due to the prevailing novel coronavirus epidemic currently ravaging the world. The couple’s only child, son, Stanley (43) is in Cape Town, South Africa. They have found a new love in the “football classics” being beamed by SuperSport channels. “How I love the classic matches,” Shaya said. “We have been indoors since the authorities imposed the national lockdown measures, about seven weeks ago. “We urge every citizen to adhere to the guidelines as pronounced by the authorities if we are to post a victory over this biting pandemic. “The epidemic has brought with it new challenges, especially to some of us who can’t do without football. “Normally, I am always watching, reading or analysing football matters right from the local scene to the international front. “That normalcy is no longer with us. We have to adjust. I am enjoying watching football classics.” The five-time Soccer Star of the Year said the football classics bring back good memories as they connect him with his hey days. “When I am watching those classics, I feel young again,” he said. “I see myself doing wonders on the field of play, grabbing all the headlines again. “I see myself walking down the streets again, all people greeting me and everyone giving me a pat on the shoulder. “I really enjoy those classic matches and I should say I have found a lot of comfort in those games.” Shaya singles out the 1978 FIFA World Cup final between the Netherlands and winners, Argentina, as well as the 1966 World Cup final game between champions England and West Germany, as his favourites.  The family have largely Shaya survived from well-wishers, who are also finding it difficult to put food on their tables, during this difficult period. “Some are still donating food stuffs and we should thank God that we have never gone to bed on empty stomachs. “We still afford some decent meals everyday. “There have been some misleading reports in the mainstream and social media that we are starving. “That is far from the truth( as you can see we have some food items which can last us a couple of weeks. “The only problem that we encounter here and there is the money to purchase electricity. “George needs to be watching the Classic matches but sometimes we don’t have electricity,” said Agnes. Herentals Group of Colleges and Schools have pledged to bail out the couple. The institution’s director, Innocent Benza, yesterday said, things were difficult but icons like Shaya need to be taken care of. “We will see what we can do going forward,” said Benza. “Things are hard but, honestly, we ought to help these legends of the game.” The institution, which also runs Premiership side Herentals, regularly donate food items and other stuff to the couple.