The Herald Wallace Ruzvidzo Herald Reporter
THE Youth League of Namibia’s ruling South West Africa People’s Organisation (SWAPO) has described the death of Zanu PF Politburo member Cde Absolom Sikhosana as a great loss to Zimbabwe and Africa. Cde Sikhosana, who died on Saturday, was Zanu PF Secretary for Youth Affairs for more than 10 years. He will be buried today at the National Heroes Acre in Harare. “Dear Comrades and the entire bereaved family, we unite with you to mourn the death of your beloved Comrade. We recollect with you, the memories of his noble life, the heroism and parental legacy he left behind. Indeed, we are collectively touched by the departure of his qualities of greatness and wisdom. “I personally had the privilege and opportunity to tap from the late’s wisdom and my interaction with him illuminates the greatness and heroism of our departed, Comrade Absolom Sikhosana,” said SWAPO Youth League secretary Cde Ephraim Nekongo. He said Cde Sikhosana was a vigilant and selfless cadre who demonstrated pan-Africanism in the liberation struggle, adding that news of his death came as a shock to the SWAPO Youth League. “We are shocked and disheartened by the departure of Comrade Absolom Sikhosana. He was one of the pillars of Zanu PF, a political giant and war veteran, who inspired many people to participate in the liberation struggle of Zimbabwe. “Death has robbed the people of Zimbabwe and indeed the African continent of a visionary, fearless and selfless leader,” said Cde Nekongo. On behalf of the SWAPO Party Youth League and indeed on my own behalf, it is with humility and respect that we extend our deepest condolences to Zanu PF, the People of Zimbabwe, his bereaved family and indeed to our brothers and sisters in the Zanu PF Youth League.” Former Harare mayor Mr Muchadeyi Masunda, who was Cde Sikhosana’s former schoolmate, said Cde Sikhosana showed true nationalism since his early childhood . “(Cde) Sikhosana will probably go down in history as one of the longest serving and fiercely loyal youth league secretaries of any nationalist party in Africa,” said Mr Masunda.