The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Despite the lockdown settings prescribed in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus infectious disease-19 (Covid-19), some people are using the opportunity to continue to empower children. Among these are Chipo Chikara, who has launched an initiation to conduct online drama lessons for aspiring actors through Zoom application. The session will begin this week targeting children between the ages of four to 12 years. Chikara, who recently resigned from being a full-time teacher to focus on some projects including having her own drama school, says this is the time drama plays a pivotal role in shaping society. “Dramas are important in our lifestyle. In addition to teaching self-expression, the performing arts help society as a whole in self-knowledge and understanding. They can be used as a tool to educate people about their current conditions. I am a drama teacher and an actor as well,” she says. Chikara has been teaching drama for past 12 years. Her online session is one of the many solutions to curbing Covid -19. “I have taught drama to a wide range of students from nursery school to high school. It is interesting to learn how to adapt one’s teaching approach to different age groups. While teaching, I have also had the privilege of taking part in theatre productions during the Harare International Festival of the Arts (HIFA) and at Reps Theatre. “The online drama club is my little answer to the coronavirus crisis. Watching from the sidelines, I have seen how overwhelmed parents have become having their children at home 24/7 without the usual stimulation of a regular classroom setting. This is my small contribution to relieve the pressure on parents at home,” she explains. Children would ordinarily have extra-curricular activities and sports in the afternoons, however, with issues of “social distancing”, it is difficult to conduct such activities. “I am hoping that what I am offering fills the gap. I think and hope during this lockdown period, parents have learned to appreciate how much work teachers put in at school. Teaching is a valuable, yet underrated, occupation,” she adds. The online lessons are arranged in 30-minute sessions. “They will be interactive as the children will be speaking with me and with their peers dotted around the country. The joy of the internet is that it brings us closer together quite easily without having to travel.” The children will learn how to listen, collaborate, and use their imagination. “I love how dramas are dynamic avenues for storytelling. The stories that will come out of this period of 2020 will make for great theatre, television and film for years to come. “This period in world history, I believe, will be immortalized in the work of the artists who are finding new ways to tell stories in spite of the existing constraints. Artists are being forced to be even more creative.”