The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
BULAWAYO City have warned their former midfielder, Innocent Kutsanzira, to be wary of outside influence but approach the club for any grievances. Failure to do that, the club said, will jeopardise the two parties’ relationship. The midfielder, who sustained a career-ending injury in August last year when City where playing against CIWU in a ZIFA Southern Region Division One League match, accused the Premiership returnees of neglecting him. He claimed he was meeting his medical expenses despite having been injured while on duty. Kutsanzira broke his leg on August 16, 2019, and a City-based orthopaedic surgeon attended to him on August 28. The specialist noted the player had suffered a fracture of the right tibia and fibula and the whole operation cost US$2610. “I was operated on, yes, but they are other challenges that I am facing like regular reviews, which all are costly,’’ Kutsanzira said. “Over and above that they (Byo City) have not registered me for this season after my contract ran out and I am now meeting all these expenses on my own.’’ Kutsanzira wrote to the club with a view of having his contract renewed while he recuperates from the injury. “As you are aware, a contract can only be entered into after a successful trial period and recommendation from the coaches, this has not happened due to your injury,’’ club secretary, Horrace Ndubiwa, said. “On the 2nd of March, we paid you some moneys which we hoped you would make use of to attend to your medical requirements, which we felt would be your priority. “I am surprised that (you) haven’t done so but chose to put the blame on the club.’’ The position of the club was further echoed by City vice-chairman, Zenzo Moyo, who said it was unfortunate the player wanted to bring the good name of the team into disrepute. “When the boy was injured, he was seen by a top surgeon in the City, all at the expense of the club, which is normal and over and above that, the club continued to pay him whatever other players were getting in terms of winning bonuses or draw allowances,’’ said Moyo. “His contract was still running. “He is no longer a City player but, as people who played football and understand the challenges of players, we are willing to listen to him and see how best we can assist him fend for his family. “There is no need for him to try and antagonise Bulawayo City in all this. For his physio, he can actually go to NSSA because he was injured while on duty but it seems he wants to go to a private physiotherapist who will be way beyond what the club can afford. “I would advise the young man not to listen for advice from outsiders but to rather come to the club.’’