The Herald Victor Maphosa Herald Correspondent
HOME-made face masks yesterday sold like hot cakes with vendors plying their business closer to security checkpoints, where those not wearing masks were being turned away. At first, police were being lenient, turning such travellers away before they started arresting them for violating the recently gazetted Statutory Instrument 99 of 2020, which criminalises failure to put on a mask. The vendors enjoyed brisk business in the early hours of yesterday when scores of employees returned to work. Vendors, mainly women, were jostling for clients without observing social distance regulations. In terms of the new health regulations gazetted on Saturday, those who fail to wear masks in public face punitive action or imprisonment of up to one year. Explaining the new requirement Health and Child Care Minister Obadiah Moyo said every time a person leaves home, he or she has to wear a mask. He said masks could be anything that covers the nose and mouth. A survey conducted by The Herald yesterday in Harare revealed that many indigenous traders responded well and produced masks that were selling big at various spots. Vendors operating at Mbudzi roundabout, just before a checkpoint along Simon Mazorodze Road, were visibly overwhelmed by customers early morning as workers were scrambling for the masks. Customers were also being allowed to touch the masks, choosing colours of their liking despite the absence of sanitisers or other disinfectants. Some were even seen trying the masks on their faces before returning them for various reasons, preferring other types. At Mbudzi roundabout the masks were being sold for $20 or US$0,50 each. Some vendors were targeting hitch-hikers at roundabout pick-up point for Masvingo travellers. One vendor confirmed the business was lucrative. “I stay with my grandmother. She is the one making these masks and my task is simply to sell them. I started selling the masks yesterday morning and the market has so far responded well. We are making money. Yesterday I sold 100 masks. Today I also brought 100 and I am only left with less than 50. I take all currencies as long as customers are paying in cash,” said the vendor, who preferred anonymity.