The Herald MANCHESTER. — An adviser of the mayor of Manchester has hit back at Angel Di Maria’s wife Jorgelina Cardoso who insulted the city, in particular, and England in general. Di Maria’s wife revealed this week the awful time she had in England when her husband played for Manchester United. Speaking to Spanish morning show Los Angeles de la Manana, Cardoso spoke about all the things she hated in Manchester following his ill-fated £59.7million move from Real Madrid in 2014. “I begged Angel, any place but England,’’ she said. “And one year later we were in Manchester, s***.’’ When asked about what exactly was wrong with Manchester, she didn’t have many nice words to say about the city. “I didn’t like anything at all. The people were all skinny, neat, weird. You are walking and you don’t know if they are going to kill you or not. “The food is disgusting, the girls all use a lot of make-up, like they are dolls.’’ Now Manchester have hit back at the PSG star and Cardoso as Sacha Lord, night-time economy adviser for Greater Manchester and one of Burnham’s key allies, told ESPN: “Before I comment, I do agree with her on one point. “Having been a United supporter all my life, I also found that period quite depressing. “Her husband was bought for almost £60m, sold a year later and was undoubtedly one of United’s biggest flops. “As for our food, we have many outstanding restaurants across the whole of our city region. I can only think her taste buds have been tarnished by how sour and bitter she is. “As for our culture, when I think of Manchester, I think of the Industrial Revolution, the suffragettes, the co-op movement, Marx and Engels, the Peterloo Massacre, the computer, splitting the atom, graphene, Alan Turing, textiles, canals, railways, football and music. “As for women always being dolled up, it may have helped if she had ventured out of the leafy suburbs of Alderley Edge at some point during that period. “Having said that, I wish the couple all the best during lockdown and hope she has used her time wisely, dusting off some of her many overpriced handbags.’’ Di Maria’s house was targeted in an attempted robbery in 2015, where burglars are believed to have used scaffolding poles to smash their way into their house. After this, the family stayed briefly in the Lowry Hotel, and the house was eventually put up for sale when Cardoso was scared to return home. The Argentina winger spent just one season at United before leaving for PSG in a £44.3m deal in August 2015. During his time in the French capital to date, he has won nine major honours – including three Ligue 1 titles. He won nothing with United. Asked for his thoughts on her quotes, United legend Gary Neville seemed unsure whether it was just a distraction because Di Maria was so poor in a United shirt and urged him to look at his compatriots at Manchester City. He replied: ‘’I don’t know what she means! Seriously. “All I would say is we hear these stories from time to time, a player has played like a drain and Di Maria did, he was awful and I had great expectations. “But, he was never interested since day one and he should look across the road at his compatriots (Sergio) Aguero or (Pablo) Zabaleta who have done alright and are not in a rush to leave. “She did have a bad experience in terms of a robbery and that would have clouded her view mentally,’’ he added. Di Maria’s return to Old Trafford with PSG in the Champions League in February 2019 highlighted the animosity. He was bundled into the advertising hoardings by his former team-mate Ashley Young, much to the delight of the unsympathetic home crowd. Di Maria received a constant barrage of abuse, although he went on to set up both goals in a 2-0 win for his side. Videos also appeared to show Di Maria telling United fans to ‘f*** off’ after setting up Presnel Kimpembe to score the opening goal. A bottle of beer was even launched at Di Maria as he took a corner. In response, Di Maria taunted the crowd by picking up the bottle before pretending to drink it — an action that UEFA came close to punishing him for. United, though, had the last laugh as they beat PSG 3-1 in Paris to overturn the first leg deficit and dump Di Maria and his teammates out of the Champions League. — Mailonline.