The Herald Trading platforms are used to open, close, and manage market positions through a broker, and this adds to the overall trading experience. While a lot of brokers offer the use of their own in-house, proprietary trading platforms, others offer a variety to choose from. The process involved with choosing a trading platform is as important as with choosing the correct broker and Zimbabwean traders need to ensure that they choose a trading platform that will meet their trading needs and comply with their trading plan. Cryptocurrency is also known as a digital currency with entries that are made into a ledger. This ledger cannot be tampered with in any way until it fulfils certain conditions. In recent years, trading in cryptocurrency has become increasingly popular with more brokers including it in their offerings. The following trading platforms are the best when trading cryptocurrency in Zimbabwe: eToro provides traders with an all-inclusive crypto-trading experience by combining three products into one holistic trading experience. Trading cryptocurrencies with eToro provides trades with the following benefits: Trading is conducted in a smart and secure environment with an asset flow within the eToro products namely the eToro trading platform, wallet, and Exchange. Cex.io provides traders with the opportunity to trade cryptocurrency either by buying instantly, trading by using Cex.io Exchange or Cex.io Brokers. A variety of trading tools is provided and cryptocurrencies that are supported can be traded for either USD, EUR, GBP, or RUB. Cex.io Exchange offers a marketplace to traders who would like to instantly buy or sell cryptocurrencies, trade cryptoassets or would like to exchange them for fiat money. The Cex.io Broker platform caters for traders who would like to trade cryptocurrency through CFDs and using this platform, traders have a variety of order types, instruments necessary for technical analysis and trading tools available for use. Yobit.net offers traders with a wide range of cryptocurrencies that can be traded and although traders can only make payments in the fiat currency USD, the trading platform provides a user-friendly trading experience especially for beginner traders. To make use of Yobi.net, traders merely have to select the currency in which they wish to trade and put either a buy or sell order on it. Transaction fees on trading are extremely low and work out to around 0.2% when either buying or selling cryptocurrency. Did you know:  The most traded currencies in Africa is USD / ZAR The fees waived are determined by the type of wallet the trader uses when transacting cryptocurrencies and Yobi.net also offers traders an initiative called ‘Free Coins’ which are earned during trading activities. Binance is a Hong Kong-based cryptocurrency exchange which offers traders the opportunity to trade cryptocurrency at extremely low fees which start at 0.1% per trade. There are several types of cryptocurrency supported by this platform and services are provided in a multitude of languages. Binance has become one of the most popular cryptocurrency exchange trading platforms globally due to its outstanding service in addition to providing traders with a wallet in which they can store their electronic funds. Traders are offered services including the trading, listing, fundraising, and delisting of a variety of cryptocurrencies – Says Professional Trader Erik Marais from MakariosFX.com Coinmama is an Israel-based cryptocurrency platform that provides traders with a variety of cryptocurrencies to trade in in addition to offering multiple payment options, high speed limits Coinmama enables traders to purchase Bitcoin through the use of credit and debit cards in addition to offering Bitcoin exchange in a variety of countries globally. When comparing the set buying limit with that of other platforms, Coinmama’s is quite high and Bitcoin can be purchased either for cash or on payments through the Western Union. Coinmama operates in 188 countries worldwide and by ensuring that all trader purchases are transferred directly from the company’s holdings, transactions are more secure. By purchasing cryptocurrencies through Coinmama, it serves as one of the fastest and easiest ways when compared to other platforms used for exchange and purchase of cryptocurrencies. Coinbase is both a digital currency wallet as well as a platform where traders can transact in a variety of cryptocurrencies. It is a global asset exchange company, also known as GDAX and provides access to numerous countries to trade in cryptocurrencies. Traders can link either their bank account, debit, or credit card to their Coinbase account to allow cryptocurrency purchases. One added benefit of using a bank account is that the trader will have access to higher limits, although it takes longer to verify transactions. Coinbase has simplified the process involved with investing in cryptocurrency despite the intricate technology necessary. AvATrade provides traders with a platform in trading cryptocurrencies that is void of hidden fees and allows traders access to the market 24/7 along with service and support which is offered in 14 languages. When trading cryptocurrencies through AvATrade, traders can be assured that their safety is first priority as AvATrade is strictly regulated by reputable authorization and regulatory entities. AvATrade provides a wide variety of cryptocurrencies which can be traded on its online trading platform and traders have access to leverage of up to 1:25 available for traders who reside outside of the EU jurisdiction. Traders have the option of trading both Crypto to Crypto in addition to being able to trade cryptocurrencies against fiat currencies such as the USD, EUR, JPY and more. These are only but a few cryptocurrency trading platforms that Zimbabwean traders can access to trade cryptocurrency. Each platform varies in their offering along with the type of cryptocurrencies which can be traded and finding the right platform will require some research in addition to different reviews and comparisons. Traders should take note that trading any financial instruments involves a certain exposure to risk, even if it is digital currency, and traders need to ensure that the fees waived by these trading platforms are inline with the trading plan that the trader has implemented. Open a Free Cryptocurrency Trading Account to Get Started Here