The Herald Young people constitute the majority of the population in Zimbabwe. This means they have an important role in fighting the spread of Covid-19. This article by Youth Empowerment and Transformation Trust (YETT) explores the role young people can play in fighting Covid-19 within their homes and communities. Several key issues arise — such as the need to share fact-based information, to co-operate with authorities, to contribute ideas and solutions, and to play a leading role at home amongst many other issues. Below are their full contributions from the interview: Share fact-based information
Social media has opened up the world to instant communication and has provided its users an opportunity to be content creators. Unfortunately, this has also led to peddling of falsehoods and sharing of incorrect information across social media platforms (Whatsapp, Facebook and Twitter). Young people need to be on high alert in this critical period so that they do not spread myths as fact on their social media platforms. Social media is an important tool for spreading information but could also lead to serious harm if the incorrect information is shared. In the case of Covid-19, The World Health Organisation (WHO) is a reliable source of information and referring their peers to the WHO website is a responsible act that all young people can perform. For official local updates they should rely on the Ministry of Health and Child Care information sources, which include their Twitter handle @MoHCCZim, Facebook page Ministry of Health and Child Care and their website www.mohcc.gov.zw. There has been a spike in the sharing of misleading chain messages and experimental home remedies, which could lead to harm and young people need to guard themselves and their families from these. It is important for young people to share this fact-based information with siblings, parents and grand-parents in the language that they understand. They should also constantly check up on those close to them and remind them to practice the prescribed precautions. Contribute ideas and actions
In the wake of Covid-19 Zimbabwean citizens have been encouraged to stay home so that the spread of Covid-19 can be contained. There is a ban on gatherings around night clubs, bars, beer halls, movie houses, swimming pools, gymnasiums, church and sporting activities until further notice. These are spaces that young people frequent and at this point young people need to comply and avoid such spaces as they provide an opportunity for the spread of this virus. Young people often feel invincible and believe they have optimum health which can withstand any onslaught but this belief could negatively affect efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19.  Young people could end up spreading the virus to their relatives and communities at high risk of falling ill. 