The Herald Hollywood. — Graham King, producer of “Bohemian Rhapsody”, recently secured the rights to produce a movie based on the “King of Pop” Michael Jackson’s life. He also obtained access to all the legend’s music. The producer’s company, GK Films, employed the services of John Logan, a three-time Oscar-nominated writer, to write the script of the movie. An Africa Giant, African American singer, songwriter, and dancer Michael Joseph Jackson (August 29, 1958 — June 25, 2009) dubbed the “King of Pop”, through stage and video performances, he popularized complicated dance techniques such as the moonwalk, to which he gave the name. His sound and style have influenced artistes of various genres. Jackson’s contributions to music, dance, and fashion, earned him the title “King of Pop”. He is recognised as the Most Successful Entertainer of All Time by Guinness World Records. In 1992, Jackson was declared King of Sanwi, a traditional kingdom located in the south-east of Ivory Coast. In 2001, the MTV Video Vanguard Award was renamed in his honour. The film which is due for release on 29 August 2020 is going to be based on real-life events that happened during the course of Michael Jackson’s life and not the desensitised version. “Mirroring Michael Jackson” is a documentary film honouring the King of Pop showcasing how Michael Jackson’s groundbreaking musical legacy has influenced performers of the past, present and future. The film presents cherished memories of Jackson via the collective voices of MJ’s friends, fellow recording artists and collaborators. Michael Jackson’s talent and artistry is celebrated in the film with original musical performances in loving memory of the “King of Pop”. The movie will portray all the complexity of the singer’s life from birth till death at 50 years old in June 2009. No part of his childhood as a star and his adulthood as a world-renowned artist will be ignored. His adult life was filled with a lot of challenges as he often had to pay off accusers over allegations of sexual molestation of children who spent the night at his house. One of the allegations sprouted from the story portrayed in a HBO documentary titled “Leaving Neverland”, a film that won an Emmy for its compelling story. The makers of the documentary are currently involved in a legal battle for $100 million with the Jackson estate. In spite of all these allegations, there is a significant amount of interest in the life and music of the icon as evidenced by the Broadway musical which is currently in production. King and Logan will iron out every detail of the script before setting it at the studio. The duo have worked together on two other films titled “Hugo” and “Rango”, which is an animation. — Africa Giant.