The Herald Midlands Bureau A returning Zimbabwean woman died in quarantine at Mkoba Teachers’ College in Gweru yesterday. Minister of State for Midlands Provincial Affairs Larry Mavima confirmed the death of the woman, but said the cause of death was still unknown. “The woman came back sick from South Africa. She came back in the company of her husband and were taken to Mkoba Teachers’ College quarantine centre in Gweru. Doctors attended to her as she was not feeling well that same day (Sunday),” he said. Minister Mavima who is the Midlands Provincial Covid-19 taskforce chairperson said her condition deteriorated yesterday. “Her blood samples have been taken to Harare for testing to see if she had Covid-19 or not. At the moment we call upon people not to speculate because we don’t want to cause mayhem and despondency in the province. To date we have not recorded a case of Covid-19,” he said. Minister Mavima said all the returnees were undergoing mandatory quarantine and testing procedures. “Mkoba Teachers’ College has received another 89 returning residents bringing the total in the province to 358. 48 came from South Africa and 41 from Botswana,” said Minister Mavima. He said 112 returning residents have been tested for Covid-19 on their eighth day. “As results come out we will start releasing negative cases out of quarantine,” said Minister Mavima. The woman, together with her husband were part of 89 returning Zimbabweans who arrived in Gweru on Sunday. Meanwhile, Minister Mavima urged residents especially those in leadership positions to desist from spreading unsubstantiated facts. He said the province had adequate food to feed the returnees. Minister Mavima said this in response to media reports quoting Gweru Urban legislator (MDC-A), Mr Brian Dube saying security lapses within some quarantine centres in the province could have seen many returnees escape from the facilities, in the process exposing other citizens to Covid-19 infections. “It’s unfortunate that Brian Dube can say such unsubstantiated facts, which will cause unnecessary alarm and despondency in the province. “The places are well secured with adequate and well-equipped security details who have specific instructions not to allow any of the returnees out of the quarantine areas and or to allow any visitors to the facilities.” Minister Mavima said Dube’s comments were very unfortunate and advised him to seek the correct and accurate information from authorities before rushing to the media adding that he would soon invite him for a meal at any of the two facilities.