The Herald Sports Reporter RONALD SIBANDA was a football genius who should have given his country more and that will always be his Achilles heel when football fans discuss some of the country’s finest stars. This is the view of our football pundit, Bothwell Mahlengwe, after Gidiza was thrust back into the public spotlight this week following comments he made to our sister newspaper, Chronicle, related to his career. The former star midfielder said he had no regrets about his failed European stint in Poland because Dynamos provided him with an attractive offer he couldn’t resist. Gidiza, then one of the most sought-after players, had a six-month stint with Slask Vroztwav FC in Poland after arriving there in a move facilitated by former Warriors’ coach Wieslaw Grabowski in 1997. Grabowski also facilitated successful moves to Europe for Norman Mapeza, Prince Matore, Herbert Dick and Dickson Choto. “I could have played for Highlanders but DeMbare came up with a better offer,’’ he said. ‘‘It was not an easy decision to go to Dynamos because I grew up supporting Bosso.’’ ‘‘But, I think they didn’t offer me what l thought I was worth and DeMbare valued me more. Twice, before joining Dynamos, I came close to signing for Bosso, but they were slow to tie the deal.’’ “Grabowski took me to Poland and I made the grade at Slask Vroztwav, I played there for six months, but l was earning close to nothing and was far away from home.’’ ‘‘You know how society views you when you’re from Europe and have nothing to show for it. I came back home during the winter break and that’s when decided not to go back to Poland.’’ ‘‘Grabowski tried to convince me to go back to Poland, but what I was to earn at DeMbare was almost equivalent to what I was earning in Poland so I decided to join DeMbare. I’ve no regrets for that decision.’’ He said playing for the Glamour Boys, back then, came with a huge responsibility. “Long back, when you played for DeMbare, you respected the jersey and played for the fans, for your family and knew you could not lose two games in a row,’’ he said. ‘‘You won games and got more money. Now these boys just play with no respect for the badge.’’ However, Mahlengwe, a former Sporting Lions midfielder who has provided football analysis for this newspaper, says Gidiza could have done more to justify the talent he had. ‘‘I like this guy. He is special. A very good person,’’ said Mahlengwe.  ‘‘But I think he failed to cross the line of what he could have been.’’ He managed to do the basics right. ‘‘He perfected getting the obvious pass right.  No one could beat him to that.  But Zimbabwe wanted more.  We wanted the man who could get the final pass right.  Someone who could match, surpass or beat Moses Chunga to that.’’ ‘‘Gidiza fell short, sadly he did the obvious when we wanted more.’’ ‘‘Hate me, loathe me, Mtshumayeli (Moyo) could give me more in that aspect. He fell short on discipline. Signature (Johannes Ngodzo) could give more but he got injured.’’ ‘‘From Gidiza, we wanted more but he gave us something less. He didn’t measure up. He was quality but he didn’t give us what we wanted.  That’s why he is never compared with the greats that he should be compared with.’’ ‘‘Maybe, I am a little bit harsh for the master passer but that’s how I see it.’’