The Herald MANCHESTER. — Kevin de Bruyne says he would consider staying at Manchester City for a season even if their ban from UEFA competition is upheld. City were given a two-year ban by UEFA in February for breaching Financial Fair Play regulations, and immediately announced their intention to appeal the ruling. They have since submitted that appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport and have always maintained confidence that the decision will be overturned on an independent investigation. However, the possibility of having no Champions League football could see the club’s best players look to leave in order to play in Europe’s premier club competition. De Bruyne has ambitions of winning the Champions League, and fans have been concerned that he could seek a move away from the club this summer if they are not eligible to play in the competition. Speaking to HLN, De Bruyne said that a two-year absence from Europe could see him look to leave, but that a one year break could be manageable. “I’m just waiting. The club has told us that they are going to appeal and that they is almost one hundred percent sure that they are right. That’s why I’m waiting to see what will happen. I trust my team,” he said. “Once the statement is made, I will review everything. Two years would be long, in the case of one year I might see.” When pressed on whether De Bruyne would look to join a club like Real Madrid or Barcelona, he reaffirmed his happiness at City. “In recent years, and before then too, there have been many teams who have polled and may have asked what I like. But to be honest, I’m very happy with City,” he continued. “I play for one of the best teams in the world, play in England – for my competitive view the best competition — and I like that. It remains a challenge to be the best and I need that too. What is coming is coming. But it’s not that I’ve tried to leave City in those five years. I have also remained calm for my previous transfers. I have never had any problems and have always waited for my moment. With respect, because I think you get most of it back. Even outside of football.” The news will be welcome to City fans, and De Bruyne also confirmed that his future at the Etihad will not depend on whether manager Pep Guardiola stays at the club past his current deal that runs until 2021. “I think Pep said he will take his year anyway no matter what. Then his contract ends. But I’m not going to let my decision depend on what Pep is doing. Of course I have already worked with other trainers and when Pep leaves, I have to continue working with someone else. But I haven’t really paid much attention to that for the time being. There are more important things at the moment.” — Manchester Evening News.