The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE all-rounder, Ryan Burl, says he feels fit and re-energised to step back onto the cricket pitch after recovering from the surgery he underwent in South Africa. Burl underwent surgery for groin and abdominal wall repair in January. The 26-year-old was named in the squad to host Ireland last month before the series was later cancelled because of the global lockdown. “If I am to be honest, it’s probably a little bit of a blessing in disguise because, just prior to the lockdown, I had an operation in South Africa on my left groin and my abdominal wall,’’ he told The Herald. “So, it’s been a nice period for me to have a bit of a break and spend time with family and also on my body to get back to full fitness. “I was probably about 90 percent coming into the lockdown. So, twice a week, I have been doing online meetings with the physiotherapist and biokineticist. “I have been doing a lot of rehab and, apart from those two weekly sessions, I have just been doing my own training sessions and, obviously, playing a bit of badminton with family.’’ Burl, who is among a new generation of Zimbabwean cricketers, has battled a number of serious injuries. In 2016, the aggressive left-handed middle order batsman and part time leg-spinner, had two operations — one for shoulder reconstruction and another one for knee reconstruction. Burl made his national team debut in 2017 and has so far featured in a18 ODIs, 16 T20Is and a single Test match against neighbours South Africa. He was one of the leading lights for the Chevrons last year despite the team’s struggles on an off the pitch. “This year, we really had the opportunity to play matches throughout the year. It was probably one of the most fixture-packed schedules,’’ he said. “So, it’s a bit of a downer because there were no big breaks between the series. We were going to play lots of cricket and, obviously, get ourselves into some form and carry that form to the next series and the next. “It’s very unfortunate.’’ The ex-Peterhouse student hit a personal high last year when he set a new Zimbabwe record for the most runs in an over in T20I cricket. This came in Bangladesh when he struck Shakib Al Hasan for three sixes, and as many fours, in Dhaka. Zimbabwe went on to lose the match by three wickets but Burl’s unbeaten 57 in 32 balls stood out. It was his maiden T20I half century. “I’m probably the biggest critic of my own game. I don’t ever settle for anything average, I want to make it big, I want to be exceptional and I always want to excel,’’ said Burl. “So, for me, I would love to try and get into the top 10 rankings in batting, bowling, all-rounder in all formats possible. “Obviously, that’s a bit of an individual goal but, as a team, we just want to get back playing and, hopefully, get back to winning ways. “Onwards, upwards with Zimbabwe and we will see what happens. In the meantime we just have to make sure we are all safe and pray that we get back to cricket soon.’’ The performance in Bangladesh opened the doors for more opportunities as he was picked by Chattogram Challengers for the Bangladesh Premier League where he rubbed shoulders with the likes of Chris Geyle, Iram Kayes, Pakistan’s Imad Wasim and Asela Gunaratne of Sri Lanka. “It was an unbelievable experience. It’s something that I will cherish for the rest of my life because I was able to play with some of the biggest names in the game, pick their minds, liaise with them and to feed off their energy and their experience,’’ he said. “It was second to nothing. Hopefully, I get bought again so that I take my game from step to step.’’ Burl also represented Zimbabwe at the 2012 Under-19 World Cup before earning his first national team cap in 2017.