The Herald Fashion 263 Winter is approaching and temperatures are going down. Many people are afraid that the winter season might bring a challenge in the Covid-19 fight because the virus thrives in cold weather. However, fashion enthusiasts will always make the best out of any situation when it comes to selecting best attires. Winter is a time for warm comfy clothes and this is your time to be creative with even the dull dark colours. Although most people have black items in their wardrobes, it is important to know how to play around with colours. This week we focus is on winter colours. One thing that you need to know is that winter colours are vibrant, dramatic and sophisticated. There are blue-based cool colours that are best emphasised with white, gold or platinum, if you like. By the way, winter is the only season that you can wear pure white or black. They are best in clear colours and sharp contrasts. Stylist and fashion ambassador Trish Carmen said there is nothing like an excellent power colour to beat the winter blues. You can play much with the colour, either a bennie hat, ugg boots, overcoat or even a plain woollen dress. “If you are very lazy why not try monochrome style,” she said. However, a true seasonal colour analysis revealed that winter is the most stunning season for colours and colour palettes. It is also general knowledge that the winter palette is made up of three colour families that are cool, deep and bright. For the cool side you also need to understand the clearest strongest and coolest shades are royal blue, emerald green, rich true red, strong magenta and bold hot turquoise. Do not mistaken for wedding themed colours though. If you want to wear lighter shades try the iciest shades of the winter landscape like, pure snow white, icy pink, icy blue, icy turquoise and icy aqua colours. Take note for light colours they begin with ‘icy’. My fashion friend Tarry MK once said that when it comes to fashion Zimbabweans vastly adapt and it is not a worrying factor. “You will be surprised my friend, all the trends, colours and accessories you are talking about are already in Zimbabwe. Take a stroll in town and see how people are wearing what exactly you are seeing on MTV. “My pick for this winter is yellow, although it may not be good or everyone. I just like to be fun and play around. I have a white coat and will pair it up with white pencil skirt with polka yellow dot shoes,” she said.