The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AFTER some exceptional performances in the opening matches of the Rainbow Amateur Netball League, Sharon Bwanali says life away from the game has not been easy. The league was deferred in its infancy, in March, in compliance with the government’s measures in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The ZDF Queens player is among the leading goal shooters in the league and had high hopes for this season. She admits it has not been easy, adjusting to individual training programmes only, and misses being on the court doing what she knows best. “As a player, I am finding it difficult. When you are used to training and playing matches, it’s tough and that’s how we earn more money,’’ she said. “So, now, just staying home it’s a challenge.  “If you go for a morning run, it’s not the same as when you do it as a group, it’s different. “You can train individually but it’s really difficult compared to when you are together as a team. “We got a programme from the coach to follow while we are at home. But, still, you can’t compare it with when you are on the court, it’s totally different and sometimes it does not work. “Being home, you also have chores, making it difficult to balance the two. “It’s different from when you wake up and go to the court, you know you have a schedule that is strictly followed.’’ While it may not be easy to adjust to the new routine, Bwanali says she has had to push herself and encouraged fellow players to keep on working on their fitness. “I wake up around 5:30am or 6am for the morning run. I also have some drills at home. “The first three weeks of the lockdown were tough and I was gaining weight. So, I needed to push myself. I am just hoping that if the league resumes, I can continue from where I left. “I would like to encourage other players to keep on working, do some workouts at home because it will be difficult to start from scratch in the event the league resumes,” said Bwanali. The players have also not been spared from the economic effects of the current circumstances. “Financially, this break has really affected us because we are not getting as much as we used to when we had matches, it’s different. “We get a salary but when matches are ongoing we also get winning bonuses and travelling allowances but now it’s different,” Bwanali said.