The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
ZIMBABWE football legend, Ephraim Chawanda, believes the path to the ZIFA presidency is littered with brutal obstacles and, until the electoral field is level, he won’t vie for the post. The former Warriors captain, whose Dream Team captured the imagination of the nation, said local football was a minefield. Throwing his name to try and lead the country’s national sport, said Chawanda, was a different ball game to leading the Warriors in the World Cup or AFCON qualifiers. Until the landmines which litter the game’s boardroom, making it difficult for people like him to even dream of contesting posts on the ZIFA board, were removed, Chawanda said he would just watch from a distance. Known as the Rock of Gibraltar, Chawanda, who was crowned Soccer Star of the Year in 1988, is one of the most influential, and respected, personalities in Zimbabwe football. A tough-as-teak defender, who led his country with both passion and pride during the hey days of the Dream Team, Chawanda said there were too many landmines in domestic football politics. The situation has created a system where people like him, who have never been part of the administration of local football, are considered outsiders, despite what they did in service for their country. Those who have been part of the ruling class, including many who have been there for decades, now consider it as a closed shop where newboys are not allowed to be part of the family. “Look, I don’t know the system but all I can say is that it’s not as beautiful as the game should be,’’ he said. “It’s a dirty place to be, for now, and only when, and if, the playing field is levelled may I decide to run for office. “I was a defender remember, I had a good timing of the ball. “When it’s appropriate, I might decide to run but now, our youngman Alois Bunjira, has made a bold move, let’s support him.’’ Former CAPS United and Zimbabwe international forward Bunjira this week came out in the open and declared he will run for the ZIFA presidency in 2022. He reiterated on Tuesday that he was going for the big one. “Many many people have been asking if the news doing the rounds that I want to contest the ZIFA elections is true,’’ Bunjira said on Twitter. “Yes, I would like to contest in 2022. “I think it is about time. I am calling for all those capable former footballers, and those in football administration to join in the race.’’ Bunjira’s announcement has ignited mixed feelings among Zimbabwean football fans and former players. A majority of social media users, however, endorsed Bunjira’s candidature although the concern will be that not any of them participate in the election. Only 58 councillors, 64 if by then the national league would have been established, will be allowed to vote. Besides Bunjira, there is also United Kingdom-based FIFA match agent, and the only female to express interest in the ZIFA presidency, Ellen Chiwenga. A number of football fans are also rooting for former Dynamos midfielder Desmond Maringwa to enter the race in 2022. “Look everyone is entitled to run for the presidency, the biggest football post in Zimbabwe,’’ said former ZIFA development officer, Brian Moyo. “However to me, that is not the major issue. “People might rush for the big post but key positions are below, those people who choose the six members of the ZIFA executive committee. “As long as we continue having the same faces, some of whom have been councillors for the past 25 years, it shall remain extremely hard to break into the top.” The ZIFA president, his deputy and board members are elected into office by the Council. The ZIFA Congress is made up of the PSL representatives, provincial chairpersons, four regional leagues representatives, one representative of the Area Zones, six representatives from the National Association of Primary Schools, National Association of Secondary Schools and National Association of Tertiary Institutions, four representatives from Women Soccer League,  one representative each from Beach and Futsal leagues.