The Herald Herald Reporter
Zanu PF has challenged three MDC-Alliance members who assert they were abducted two weeks ago to cooperate with police and give as many details as possible so that those responsible can be found. The party’s acting secretary for Information and Publicity, Cde Patrick Chinamasa told a Press conference in Harare yesterday that Zanu PF abhorred torture or any form of forced disappearance of individuals as signified by the country, under its leadership, signing international instruments and protocols on observation of human rights and freedoms. The three women — Joana Mamombe, who is MP for Harare West, Netsai Marova and Cecilia Chimbiri — were allegedly abducted on May 13 after taking part in a demonstration in Warren Park, Harare, that is now the subject of a criminal court case. Cde Chinamasa said the party was concerned about the questionable manner in which the alleged abductions are said to have taken place. “We are saddened to hear that despite pleas by the law enforcement agents for the ladies in question to cooperate, they are reportedly uncooperative, choosing rather to communicate to NGOs, hostile news media elements and social media. “We call upon the ladies to understand that this is a serious matter and that the allegations they have made are serious and deserve serious attention by law enforcement agents,” Cde Chinamasa said. “The onus to prove that there was an abduction lies on the ladies who should provide substantive evidence of what transpired rather than being hostile to law enforcement agents. “We find it abhorrent that to-date neither the three lady complainants nor family members nor their friends have made a formal report to the police, suggesting that they don’t want the truth to come out.” He said the latest incident of alleged abductions was similar to the alleged abduction of Dr Peter Magombeyi last year; but he moved outside Zimbabwe without providing any information to authorities to enable investigations. Cde Chinamasa said the timing of the latest incident was also questionable saying the party objected to the vilification of its leadership and Government. “The timing and manner in which these alleged abductions were raised leaves a lot to be desired. It is clear that these alleged abductions were intended to coincide with the convening by the President and First Secretary of the party, Cde Mnangagwa, of the Sadc Troika summit on Mozambique which was attended by regional leaders. “The allegations also happen at the time the US Committee on Foreign Relations was preparing to meet to deliberate on the removal of Agri-Bank and IDBZ from the illegal sanctions they imposed on this country at the request of these opposition movements,” he said. Cde Chinamasa said the alleged abductions were also a ploy to distract the country from the splits that have rocked the MDC and urged the police to leave no stone unturned in its investigations of what happened between the demonstration and the emergence of the women in the Bindura area, who said they had been injured although they have not presented to the public details of these injuries.