The Herald Collin Matiza
SHE can easily be named in the same bracket with the likes of Ambuya Stella Chiweshe, Ambuya Madhuve and Bybit Mtukudzi as leading female participants in Zimbabwean music. From the first day I met her, that was in the early 1990s, when I was introduced to her by Never Chibhanguza, the late former assistant coach of the now-defunct Premiership football side Air Zimbabwe Jets, during one of her shows at Holly’s Night Club in Harare, she struck me as a woman of a unique character. She was fronting a local contemporary band called Hohodza, which had the likes of lead vocalist Simba Mudzingwa, who is now late, and a then unheralded young Progress Chipfumo, among the leading guitarists of this outfit. The group also had a number female dancers who captivated patrons at this once popular joint in Harare with their gyrating dances. From that day I became one of Hohodza’s “die-hard” fans, and I would find myself following them to their other weekly shows at either Rumours Nightclub — which was along Chinhoyi Street — or Club Hideout in Lochnivar. I always went to the shows with my late great friend Chibhanguza, who I nicknamed “Hotel Montfebbe” after one of our escapades at this hotel in Yaounde, Cameroon, when we accompanied the senior national football team for the World Cup qualifier against the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon. The woman I am referring to is none other than “The Godmother” of female musicians in Zimbabwe — Portia Gwanzura. When I first met Gwanzura she was an innocent “PYT” (Pretty Young Thing), and the first question I asked her was what or who was behind her decision to form Hohodza Band, and what inspired her to do so. She only gave me a simple answer, saying she just wanted to make a difference in the male-dominated music industry in Zimbabwe. And up to today, almost 30 years later after our first encounter at Holly’s Nightclub, Gwanzura, who is still beautiful despite being on the other side of the 50s, is still working to make a difference in music circles. In fact, Gwanzura is now based in Wigan, England, after she relocated to in 2002 with some members of Hohodza Band. Gwanzura recently made headlines in her adopted home of Wigan, a town in Greater Manchester, after she penned a song aimed at raising money for the NHS (National Health Service) following the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. The virus has killed a number of frontline health workers, including some Zimbabweans, in that country since its outbreak at the beginning of this year. Gwanzura’s kind gesture did not escape the attention of Gaynor Clarke, a journalist at Wigan-based daily newspaper — Wigan Today — who wrote a very interesting story, paying tribute to her and it reads like this: “Portia Gwanzura was leader of the band Hohodza, which enjoyed success in Zimbabwe and was voted the third best band in the country at the height of its fame. “She moved to the UK and settled in Leigh, performing in schools across the borough and holding dance workshops with Hohodza, and later ran The Moonraker pub. “Portia decided to take time out from performing and recording music in 2006, but felt compelled to return for the first time since to offer her support during the (coronavirus) pandemic. “She has released a cover version of Don Williams’s song ‘You’re My Best Friend’, which she has brought to life with her own style and African musical background, to raise money for the NHS. “Portia said: ‘Watching the news reports as the world continues to do what it can to help support people wherever they can, I too wanted to make my own contribution. I have chosen this song as not only is it the original version a long-time favourite of mine, I think the lyrics are deeply inspiring and express so many things about humanity, loyalty, hope, love, friendship and gratitude that seem somehow more relevant now than ever before as we come to rely on each other and arguably the NHS more than ever before.’” “Portia’s song can be found on YouTube, while donations to NHS Charities Together can be made at www.justgiving.com/fundraising/portia-gwanzura”. And when The Herald contacted Gwanzura earlier this week she said this was her first recording since she stopped “doing music” in 2006. “We came (here to the UK) in 2002 with Hohodza. At that time, we did workshops and we also did a lot of gigs at different festivals here in the UK. I did music up until 2006 and stopped. I’ve not done any music since then, and I have now just started again. I did a Don Williams’s cover (song) just for Charity and am now working on my next single in over 15 years which should be out soon. “I would say I was inspired by the late Oliver Mtukudzi who up until now is my favourite musician. I really want to have a good come back.” And indeed, Gwanzura wants to announce her comeback with a bang.