The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
RECORD-BREAKING coach, Callisto Pasuwa, has revealed he juggled with the idea of another romantic flirtation with Dynamos just two years ago. However, the coach said he eventually chose to reject the offer to take charge of the Glamour Boys because he didn’t want to be part of an agenda to portray Lloyd Mutasa as a failure. Pasuwa won the league title with DeMbare on four consecutive occasions between 2011 and 2014 before leaving the team to coach the Warriors. He had replaced Mutasa. But, that was before his critics charged Pasuwa had hijacked Mutasa’s project, having taken over the Glamour Boys in the final phase of the season in 2011. Mutasa, however, was given another chance to prove himself at Dynamos after Pasuwa left. But, when DeMbare hit a new low in 2018, the club’s leaders again turned to Pasuwa to come in and replace Mutasa. However, this time, Pasuwa rejected the advances, leaving the Glamour Boys to go a comical relationship with Lloyd “MaBlanyo” Chigowe. Now, Pasuwa, for the first time, had revealed why he rejected the reunion. “Remember, when I arrived at Dynamos as a coach back in 2011, it was Lloyd (Mutasa) who was in charge,” said Pasuwa. “And, when the team also sounded me, it was him in charge again. “I really wanted to come back but the fact that it was Mutasa again in charge made me think otherwise. “I wouldn’t do that. “It would have appeared as if I was backbiting my friend (Mutasa) and the fact that I had agreed to take, over seven years before, would have read like a series and soap opera with the same actors. “That is the reason why I refused.” Pasuwa said had it not been that Mutasa was the one in charge of DeMbare, he would possibly have reunited with the Glamour Boys. “Had it been that it wasn’t Lloyd (Mutasa), who was in charge, yes, I might have bounced back at the team,” he said. “Such is life in the football trenches, I know people say this and that about my relationship with Mutasa. “But, I have to make this loud and clear. “We have worked together since our playing days and we remain good friends up to now.” After snubbing the offer to return to Dynamos, Pasuwa was appointed an interim coach at Malawi giants, Nyasa Big Bullets. He won the league title with the club before landing the post on a permanent basis. He made it two league titles in two years when the club again won the league title last year. Pasuwa is currently holed up in Malawi and, with football activities on hold in that country, just like in virtually every part of the world, he is managing his players through virtual means. “We are adhering to health guidelines and managing the team using technology. “These are difficult times. We need to be careful and preserve everyone’s health.” Pasuwa has transformed himself into one of the country’s best football coaches since being thrown into the hot seat in the final phase of the 2011 season.