The Herald Veronica Gwaze
ZIMBABWE senior netball Wing Defender Claris Kwaramba would have been making history at her maiden appearance at this year’s university games. That probability has been placed on hold as a result of the global outbreak of the novel coronavirus infectious disease (Covid-19). At the time that the nation went under lockdown leading to the suspension of all sporting activities, universities were already in advanced stages of preparations for their annual inter-universities clashes. Zimbabwe University Sports Association (ZUSA) and Zimbabwe Tertiary Institutions Sports Union (ZTISU) games would have been underway. The 20-year-old Kwaramba, who also turns out for Zvishavane’s Platinum Queens, is a University of Zimbabwe (UZ) first year Law student after enrolling earlier this year on a Platinum Holdings scholarship. And she was to feature in UZ’s athletics team under 100 and 200 metre sprints and as a defender in the netball team. However, with the lockdown coming into effect on March 30, Kwaramba had to go back to her home in Mutare to join her family. “It has always been my wish to represent UZ and enrolling at the institution for law was indeed the first step to living my dream,” she told Youth Interactions. “Having invested so much, I was looking forward to it but with just about a month left to the games it is hurting everything had to be disturbed by the Covid-9 pandemic… there is nothing we can do.” The former Pamushana High School scholar’s netball journey began in 2017 in Mutare before she moved to Zvishavane under Platinum Queens. She is back to her roots in what she says is her longest stay since she started her professional netball journey three years ago. She feels Covid-19 lockdown gave her the opportunity to once again get her parents’ blessings as she embarks on her tertiary education journey. “Had it not been for the lockdown, the team was ready to make waves but it is also good that I got the chance to get another blessing from my parents,” she explains. “I am an Arts person and somehow I am Afro-centric. I just believe there is nothing as special as your parents’ blessing in life. “The blessing I got the day I left home for Zvishavane led me this far. I never dreamt of myself ever making it to places like Liverpool, let alone the Netball World Cup but here I am and all thanks to my parents.” The lethal defender is ready to marshal her international experience to make an impression at her new home when games resume. She is also the youngest player to have featured on the Gems squad. At 18, she already had everyone eating from the palm of her hand after a pleasing debut on August 13, 2018 in Lusaka, Zambia. It is at the same tournament (African Championships) that the Gems also qualified for 2019 Netball World Cup held in Liverpool. The experience has been amazing as her journey continues with national team after graduating from the Under -21 side that took part at the World Youth Cup in 2017. The netball prodigy went on to be part of the Gems squad that made a stylish world cup debut to finish eighth at the global showcase. She was later to captain the young Gems and would have been currently in camp for the 2021 Netball World Youth Cup qualifiers that were slated for Uganda. “We were working hard as UZ team and as an individual I hoped for a lit debut with my international experience obviously coming in as an advantage,” she says. “However, we still motivate each other to keep working even at home and I am still looking forward to the day I don the UZ colours.” The Gem maintains that when games resume, she will be able to balance her academics, UZ sport and as well continue serving Platinum queens.