The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter PREMIERSHIP side, CAPS United and Black Rhinos, have already activated systems to find alternative corporate partners following the withdrawal by their principal sponsors, NetOne. The pair, though, are not reducing wages for their staff as yet. NetOne withdrew their financial commitment to football last week to refocus on fighting against the coronavirus pandemic. The mobile telecommunication giant have been bankrolling CAPS United, Black Rhinos, Highlanders as well as relegated Chapungu United. The sponsors advised the two giants they will continue to sponsor them for the remainder of this year but the relationship will end a year before its scheduled ending. CAPS United and Rhinos yesterday indicated they were not chopping any salaries for their staff. A Green Machine source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said although there were considerations being made on that front, salaries haven’t been reviewed downwards, as of now. “These are difficult times we find ourselves in,” the source said. “There have been serious considerations to cut the wage bill. NetOne have withdrawn their sponsorship. “The company has been bailing the team out, in terms of paying salaries for the staff members. “Talks are going on as the team is reaching out to its employees with that proposal but, definitely, no salaries have been trimmed, as of now. “Each employee has been receiving what is on their contracts.” The same source said, if the salaries were going to be reduced, it will be about three months from now. There are also reports the Green Machine are also engaging NetOne as to find the best way to handle the divorce. Black Rhinos said the welfare of their employees remained a priority and they were not going to cut their salaries anytime soon. Team spokesperson, Edward Mutukwa, who is also fronting efforts to get new sponsors on board, said the coronavirus pandemic, which has brought football activities to a halt, has hit them hard. “It’s not a secret that if things remain the way they are, we will be forced to compromise on salaries. ‘’But, at the moment, we haven’t considered reducing staff salaries. “Look, nobody ever predicted we would be in a situation that we find ourselves in at the moment. We are trying to keep our staff happy. “Remember, they are performing some roles, the coach and his fitness trainers are ever busy, tracing progress made by the players online. “That’s a lot of work on their part and, on the part of the players. But, we will obviously have to look at it if the season is delayed beyond the scheduled August/September.” The 2020 Premiership, which was initially scheduled to start in March, has been frozen until, at least,  August/September. But, that is also subject to approval by relevant authorities including Government, FIFA and CAF, who ZIFA are consulting for guidelines. Mutukwa has appealed to ZIFA and the PSL to consider, in future, levying clubs and set aside funds which could bail them out in case of such challenges. “This pandemic is something unprecedented but I am sure it has opened a lot of eyes. “Authorities, including ZIFA and the PSL, should consider levying clubs and setting aside the funds to help out in easing such pandemics.”