The Herald Arts Reporter
A documentary that seeks to trace the country’s cultural heritage through observing chieftainship patterns in the country is set to be screened on various channels soon. It will be anchored by producer and director of the series Timothy Chiminya, who is affectionately known as Changamire Dombo. The documentary will run under the theme “Preserving Zimbabwe’s Heritage in its Diversity” and aims to explore various historical issues about chieftainships from as early as the 1820s. In an interview, Chiminya, who is the creator of the series, said preparations were at an advanced stage for the show to go on screen. “We have already structured our proposals. We have identified important people that we will interview. These are the people who have the history and information about our culture and chieftainships in various parts of the country,” said Changamire Dombo. “Our main objective is to trace and explore the Rozvi Empire, embarking on research and presenting the findings about the raging debate into the history of chieftainships. It will be screened on local and regional television stations,” he said. Chiminya said the documentary will help in influencing opinion, policy and planning around thorny issues about chieftainships. “It will create vivid awareness of the chief’s role in the national and economic affairs. We will also outline and promote the sustainable development of a quality and competitive tourism industry and investment opportunities. We are also building people’s confidence in their ability as a nation, to turn around the country’s fortunes through assistance from the traditional leadership,” he explained. The producer said the programme will have 13 episodes and each will be 20 minutes long. He commended the Government for giving them access to information on issues to be discussed and availing platforms to showcase talent in research and presentation. “With the help form National Museums and Monuments of Zimbabwe’s narrative from experienced elders, the programme will come up with recommendations on cultural issues that revolve around chieftainships “It will mainly be about traditional chiefs’ commitment and dedication to various Government projects, apart from their core mandate of maintaining peace and administering justice in their domains,” he said. “We also want to carry out research to establish the origins, movement and current standings on the Rozvi descendants. This is the history that will not only shape our future but the present for a better understanding of tomorrow and Zimbabwe’s struggle for independence,” said Chiminya.