The Herald Lifestyle Writer
Another week has passed and the lockdown continues. It is the second week of May and tomorrow is Mother’s Day. I hope you have planned something for the special lady. It is the love that counts. Mothers need to be celebrated everyday but tomorrow just surprise her with something. With the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, something that goes with a box of surgical face masks will do. Even designing one for her will show the love. Anyway it is your call, you know what to do. Still on that, the Government has made the wearing of masks a mandatory and it is now an offence if caught without. Safety first, let us all adhere to the precautionary measures inscribed to us. It might be difficult and expensive to those who cannot afford to buy the clinical surgical masks in pharmacies or supermarkets but there is a creative way to make one. Some local designers, as mentioned last week, have embarked on a journey to design with cloth material. They shared their easy quick steps on how to make them. You can follow suit by creating your own washable face mask, which is much healthier and cheaper. Even though you are wearing the mask do not forget to observe the social distancing wherever you are. Remember it begins with you. As some are back at work, fashion stylist and designer Joan Nyambe shared tips on do’s and don’ts of some work outfits on her social media page. I know some had forgotten and missed to wear their formal wear. Nothing has changed, it is just the environment and atmosphere because of the pandemic coronavirus. “When you are wearing a blazer to work, ladies for a proper fit, sleeves of shirts and jackets should hit just a little below your wrist. If the sleeves are too long, it will look like you are wearing someone’s blazer. Be creative by playing around with your outfits. Remember your good imagination can make it work and no one cannot notice,” she said. So winter is coming and there is something magical about wintertime. But as the days start to get a little shorter and a lot colder, it is easy to lose sight of this sense of wonder. Fear not, all you need is a little shift in perspective to see the beauty of winter again. One of the feedbacks I usually get from my fashion readers is about on how to prepare for winter. It is a valid concern, considering the lockdown issues, you need to get ready for winter by planning for it now. It is a must to invest in a winter coat. When you go out and buy your winter coat, there are a few things you should keep in mind. Your coat should be lightweight and able to provide warmth. I know some prefer those down coats popularly known as “puffer jackets” which are generally warmer, but you can wear a lined wool or cashmere coat too if you know how to layer properly underneath. Some can go for long coats that extend past the waist, whether they be down coats or overcoats, with a hood for protecting your head against the winter winds. Another tip you need to consider is that your coats should be rain resistant. However apart from investing in your coat, make sure that you also prepare your skin and hair for the cold. About this, local beautician and make-up artiste Ropa Pearl noted, “Break out your best moisturisers for your winter shenanigans as you are going to need them. Dry winter weather can often cause painful cracked skin. Easily affected are the hands and the lips, so make sure to have moisturising hand creams and lip balms, applying them generously several times throughout the day.”