The Herald ABIDJAN. — Nomadic African striker Aristide Bance has made shocking revelations about Ivorian football amid Didier Drogba’s campaign for Ivorian Football Association presidency. In May last year, Bance joined Ligue 1 Pro giants AC Horoya in Guinea as the 22nd club of his remarkable career that began in his hometown of Abidjan back in 2000. He is a teammate of Zimbabwe international midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu who joined Horoya in May this year after his contract with Tanzanian side, Azam, expired. Having represented Stade d’Abidjan and, more recently, ASEC Mimosas, the towering striker is well versed in the local game of the country of his birth. With Drogba falling behind in the race for the presidency, the Burkina Faso international has pleaded for the decision-makers to consider those who are suffering from the inept system in place. “The players of the Ivorian championship are not considered at all. There are players who do not receive their wages for three to four months,” Bance said on Facebook Live. “There are players in the Ivorian championship who receive 50 thousand FCFA (R1500, about US$82)) in the month  . . . For a championship like that of the Ivory Coast, I think it is unacceptable. “There are club presidents who are bad. They only come to get rich. Despite the millions they have, apart from ASEC Mimosas, there is no club that has its own training ground.” Bance went on to list several African leagues that he feels are in a healthier state than the Ivorian top-flight and called out the corrupt leaders who’ve held positions of power for decades in the FIF hierarchy. “Look in Zambia. There are clubs that pay better than in Ivory Coast. Even in Guinea, there are players playing in the first division who have cars, but in Côte d’Ivoire, how many players have a car,” Bance explained. “You leaders don’t just think of your pocket. Think about the future of these kids who play for you and who can make your clubs great. There are presidents who don’t give a damn and who only think of eating. “Today, I am happy that Didier Drogba is a candidate because he is someone who has a fairly full address book of contacts. “We can’t even argue that and there are a lot of young players who want Drogba to win. So, I ask club presidents to talk to their players before the vote. Don’t just think about your belly.” Two South African footballers, Bennet Chenene and Mzokhona Ngezana currently ply their trade in the Ivorian top-flight with Williamsville Athletic Club. — Kick-Off.