The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter KATSVERE — it’s a surname synonymous with the best in football in this country. Eddie Katsevere became a star playing for Dynamos in the ‘80s. Now, his grandson, Shingirai is making a name for himself on the rugby front. He has already played for his country and is one of the most promising players emerging on the scene. Yet, the 22-year-old wouldn’t have been a rugby player, in the first place, were it not for his friend, Munashe Kamunda. “I hated the sport and I still remember telling my father that I wouldn’t dare play rugby although he always bought me rugby attire,’’ he said. “While we were at Adbernie Primary School, I was a soccer player but, my friend Munashe (Kamunda) who himself had converted from football into rugby, convinced me to try my hand at rugby. “It was difficult as I didn’t like the sport at all. For a week, I couldn’t even tell my father that I was attending rugby sessions since I had vowed before him that I would never be involved in this game.” The more he attended rugby sessions, the more polished he became as he mastered the basics. Although, Katsvere harboured ambitions to emulate, or even surpass his grandfather, Eddie, his love for football quickly faded as soon as he cemented his place in the school’s rugby team. And he has never looked back. “Ever since I was introduced to rugby, soccer just faded away from my life though my grandfather (Eddie) was a soccer legend,’’ he says. “I started to believe that people have different callings but the goal will always be to praise God for your talent. So, I believe I’m serving the purpose accordingly.” Katsvere, has since become a permanent feature in both the Sables and Cheetahs squads. “I used to play so that I can only be the best player. But I was wrong, it’s something bigger than me. “I now know that my purpose is to play so that the name of God will be praised and I don’t play for anyone but for God. “If I knew this earlier I would have been on another level.” Katsvere’s friend, Kamunda, played up to Under-20 level and retired before finding a new base in Botswana. He describes Katsvere as a rare talent. “I can’t really recall the finest details but I looked at Shingi (Katsvere) and was convinced he would make a good rugby player. “But, it was difficult convincing him to dump football. Remember, everyone at school looked up to him to solve every crisis in football since everyone knew he was related to the iconic Dynamos star, Eddie. “But, he is a rare talent and, barring injuries, Katsvere will go places as he is blessed with virtually all the attributes of a great rugby player.” Katsvere wishes everyone adheres to the national lockdown orders to help contain the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic. “During these testing times, I would advise people to practice proper hygiene and keep safe from this pandemic. “I am training alone and, obviously, I’ve missed being with my brothers showcasing our talents praising God, I also miss putting joy in the Zimbabwean rugby supporters.” Katsvere has been capped seven times for the Sables and six for the Cheetahs.