The Herald For Africa University (AU) students Shaideen Travers and Joseph Zishiri, the isolation brought about by the national lockdown has exposed them to a new perspective. Final year Economics student Joseph Zishiri has witnessed first-hand the desperate situations that have been compounded in this crisis. Christine Madhani, a single parent and widow, who has diabetes and tuberculosis, is an amputee from diabetes-related complications and is wheelchair-bound. She is also a grandmother of four. When Zishiri found out about her situation, he learnt that the last time she took her life- saving medication was over three weeks prior to the writing of this story. With her limbs and eyes heavily swollen to the point where her vision was obscured, Mrs Madhani was in desperate need of critical health care. Zishiri says: “Upon hearing of her plight, I managed to reach out to a friend of mine who is a physician who visited her and examined her free of charge. She was subsequently admitted to the hospital where she is currently receiving treatment. “ With Mrs Madhani being the breadwinner of her household, Joseph understood that more support was required. “I reached out to over 800 people within my network asking for assistance in getting this family back on its feet. “My target was 400 ZWL but in 48 hours, we managed to raise 4000 ZWL. I used this money to purchase groceries and with what was left over, we managed to buy her medication.” Showing wisdom beyond his years and a great depth of understanding, Joseph says: “I know that this family cannot live on donations alone. The plan in the long-term is to provide a sustainable solution where Mrs Madhani can fend for herself.” Shaideen Travers is no stranger to servant leadership. As the Africa University Student Representative Council President, he has proven himself to be a capable, compassionate and available leader. Travers has taken this spirit into his community of Braeside in Harare, where as in other parts of Zimbabwe, families are having to adjust to a new normal that has forced many to find means through which to make ever diminishing necessities such as food stretch longer. When asked about his motivation, Travers says: “This work is highly driven by the way I grew up. I was raised by my mother who would always teach me and my two older sisters about life and how it can change. “One day you may have, the next you may not, so help anyone you can anytime you can. “She told me that in life, the more you give the next person the more you start to see your life change. This change is like a candle and what does that candle do? It will light up other candles until the whole room is lit up and there is clear vision. She said that this is similar to what happens when you give. “ Travers and his network of sponsors have managed to help over 15 families to date with maize meal donations of 10 kg per family among other food items. “We intend to reach out to about 85 families with an aim to help 100 families in all. Our vision is to see people have some food in their bellies during this tough time. Many people have stopped working due to Covid-19 and really are finding it hard to sustain themselves.” By tapping into the African culture of Ubuntu and the intrinsic sense of community, Zishiri and Travers have managed to mobilize people from various backgrounds to support and uplift others. Speaking to the kinds of assistance that has been rendered, Travers says: “Some give cash and some give groceries, just a day ago, a brother of mine offered maize meal after seeing the good work we were doing. Good work speaks for itself.” To help these amazing young men in their cause, you can email to:  Shaideen Travers on traverss@africau.edu and  Zishirij@africau.edu