The Herald Bongani Ndlovu Bulawayo Bureau
Zimbabwean artistes united for one cause during the Anti-Sanctions Virtual Gala as they performed energetically as if they had a physical audience in front of them. Bulawayo hosted the event at Rainbow Hotel where over 30 artistes performed on Saturday night until yesterday morning. The artistes included Jeys Marabini, Sandra Ndebele, Iyasa, Enzo Ishall, Minister Mahendere, Madlela Skhobokhobo, Diamond Música, Allan, Tryson and Douglas Chimbetu, Mechanic Manyeruke, Mzoe7, Hwabaraty, LMG Choir, Poptain, Allana, Franco Dhaka Slomo, Peter Moyo and Mahendere Senior. The show was beamed live on ZBCTV and on various Facebook pages. Due to Covid-19, a big bash could not be held because of regulations on public gatherings. Dignitaries that witnessed the event live from the hotel included the Minister of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Monica Mutsvangwa, Bulawayo Provincial Affairs and Devolution Minister Judith Ncube, Zanu PF acting secretary for Information and Publicity Cde Patrick Chinamasa, Zanu PF acting secretary for Youth Affairs Cde Tendai Chirau, Zanu PF director of Information and Publicity Tafadzwa Mugwadi and Zanu PF Youth League National Deputy Secretary Mabutho Moyo. The atmosphere at the venue was electric and celebratory as the artistes gave their all on stage. It was as if they were performing for thousands of people and they could see their fans. Artistes should be commended for giving their all on stage. It is not easy to keep energy on stage without an actual audience to spur you on with cheers and applause. It was also interesting to see how artistes seemed to have adapted to the new normal of performing for an audience that will not give them a response. Their audience was at home, watching the proceedings online perhaps cheering or even dancing along and giving the applause through likes and comments on Facebook live. Credit also goes to the dignitaries that were at the venue to watch and enjoy the performances as they were there until the wee hours of the night. From time to time during the acts, they would join the artistes on stage to dance to their music. Juntal got them dancing to his track Mutupo. What was also great was that each artiste had a limited time on stage, something that kept the viewers interested in the acts. Juntal, Sandra Ndebele, Mzoe 7, Madlela Skhobokhobo were highly energetic on stage, while the likes of Jeys Marabini and Baba Mechanic Manyeruke brought the mature and mellowness to the event with their music. The stage provided by Sound Kulca, filled half the venue and was big enough to fit a full band. The electronic backdrop had messages running about Anti-Sanctions. The Ani-Sanctions Gala was a joint venture between Government and the ruling party Zanu PF following last year’s Sadc declaration of October 25 as Anti-Sanctions Day. Zimbabwe has been under illegal sanctions for the past 20 years following the successful land reform exercise at the turn of the millennium. This year’s Anti-Sanctions theme is: “Resilience, Progress and Solidarity under an environment of                    sanctions.” Director of Media Services in the Ministry of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Anywhere Mutambudzi described the Anti-Sanctions Gala as a huge success, adding that he was impressed by the professionalism and acts on stage.