The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, says the digital equipment they received from their Belgian partners, KV Mechelen has helped transform their training programmes at the Glamour Boys. He has altered weekly individual training programmes for his players, from moderate to intensive, in anticipation of group training resumption. And he hasn’t faced any difficulties monitoring his players’ training programmes as the equipment allows him to interface with them in real time. The Glamour Boys received the equipment in July. “There are strong indications that we will be returning to action soon and, in preparation for such a momentous return, we have increased the frequency and intensity of individual training sessions for our players,” said Ndiraya. “Hopefully, when we get the green light to return, we will, at least, be ready mentally. “The inactivity has hugely affected the general fitness levels of our players. “But, a few weeks before authorities hinted on a possible return, we had already increased our training programmes. “The equipment from our Belgian partners came in at the right moment. I have been using it for virtual meetings with management, and players, as well as training sessions.’’ The Belgians have promised to send more items to enhance the coaching methods at the Harare giants. Ndiraya, who got a chance to work with the KV Mechelen first team as part of the exchange programme between the two clubs, was supposed to return to Belgium this year but the plans were halted by the Covid-19 pandemic. “I will certainly return to Belgium for a longer period. I couldn’t capture everything in that short period (when he went there in February),’’ he said. “Football has become so dynamic and new trends are introduced every season in Europe. “It is important for coaches, and administrators, to familiarise themselves with these new trends. It will help develop our game in a very big way. “On the technical team side, I am not the only one who will be going for attachments in Belgium. “All members of the technical team, in their different capacities, will get the chance to go there. “And, I think, what is more important is for us to be able to put what we would have learnt into practice and achieve the desired results. “For now, we have actually benefited in a big way in doing what we ought to be doing in a time like this.”