The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
VETERAN long-distance runner, Tabitha Tsatsa, couldn’t have made it in the elite world of athletics had she allowed challenges in life to distract her. She describes her life story as a testimony, and she is right. After losing her father as a toddler, Tsatsa was forced to mature earlier than her age mates. She had to shelve her desire, to become a professional athlete, to work as a maid for a decade. Now, she has represented the country at the All-Africa Games, World Championships and the 2008 Olympic Games. “I have always been a dreamer. Athletics is in my DNA but I was also unfortunate to lose my father at a young age,’’ she said. ‘‘But, my mother was so supportive although she could not provide everything I needed to pursue. ‘‘As a result, I had to forego that dream and, for 10 years, I was a maid. “It was a difficult decision to make but I had to make it. When I recall that episode, I become very proud because I learnt a lot through that experience.’’ The obstacles she faced shaped her into becoming not only a tough character, on the track, but to also change lives in her community. She has since established her own athletics club, PowerHouse, formed in 2007 and the Chitungwiza Community Athletics Club that came into life in 2017. PowerHouse mainly focuses on aspiring professional athletes and the community club also promotes healthy living style. Tsatsa, who stays in St Mary’s, Chitungwiza, has 150 members at the two clubs. “There were children that used to follow me when I was training, that’s when I started assisting,’’ she said. ‘‘I started with one athlete who stays in this neighbourhood. Most of them are from underpriviledged backgrounds. “I also met a young lady called Rumbi Masawi and she called me to a community club meeting. ‘‘I went there and spoke to a group of women and they recognised my interest in developing athletes’’ Tsatsa moved from track to road races. “I could be living in Borrowdale or somewhere else but I decided that in my life I want to give back to the community and I bought a house here,’’ she said. ‘‘Some of the athletes I met did not have a place to stay and I would accommodate them here. “All along I have been using the money that I would have won at races, that’s why I am still running. ‘‘I realised that if I stop, I would not have the means to assist them. ‘‘My mom was interested in sport and she played a big role. She is my role model.’’ She is also being assisted by Abel Chimukoko and Collen Makaza. Some of the athletes she is working with are Rudo Mhonderwa and Miriam Sibanda. She also helped Fortunate Chidzivo and Patience Murove at some point. Mhonderwa said since meeting Tsatsa in 2015 a lot has changed in her life. “She helped me to start running, it wasn’t easy. There was a lot of stuff I needed, food, training kit, transport to training and races. ‘‘But she took me in, taught me how it’s done, that’s the role she played. “When I met her in 2015, I actually wanted to join the Zimbabwe Republic Police but she told me the benefits of running and that I could actually make a living out of it. ‘‘I then decided to take it up and I can say it has made a difference in my life and for my family. “So far I have represented the country at the World Cross Country twice, in 2017 and 2019 in Uganda and Denmark,” said Mhonderwa. Tsatsa was the first female runner in the country to qualify to run in the marathon event at the Olympics when she ran two A standard qualifying times to earn her place at the 2008 Games in Beijing.