The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Silver Screen Natural is beautiful! Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the new Miss South Africa 2020. Shudufhadzo Musida (24) was crowned the new queen, beating 15 other contestants from South Africa. Musida walked away with a lucrative R3-million prize package while Thato Mosehle is the first runner-up and Natasha Joubert took the third spot. I watched the show on live stream of Miss SA 2020 social media pages before catching the latest updates on M-Net 1010 were the event was broadcast from the Table Bay Hotel in Cape Town. The pageant gave a heads up to Zimbabweans as we have to take a leaf from our neighbouring countries. Well, after all we have the ‘curvylicous’ and beautiful girls too, what is left for us is to deliver. Miss Zimbabwe World and Miss Tourism Zimbabwe, hello, we are waiting… By the way, did you see that the newly-crowned queen brought new levels of embracing your natural beauty and hairstyle? Musida proved that with a bald head, curvy figure oozing with confidence, you can be the most beautiful girl in South Africa. Last year, Zozibini Tunzi, who was crowned Miss South Africa, went on to win Miss Universe 2019. Zozibini had and is always spotting her natural “box cut” hairstyle. Gone are the days when Brazilian weaves and being petite tops, I am not body-shaming but ladies natural is the endgame. Well speaking of natural, it reminds me yesterday was watching the National Geographic channel on DSTV 181. This month they are calling it “Croctober” centring on crocodiles. There is a programme — “World Deadliest Crocs 1” which aired on 2030hrs, giving viewers a glimpse of crocodile lives, from how smart, hungry and powerful they can be to giving the latest behaviours and status of the big king in water. I am sure it is a good programme, especially during this lockdown and curfew something you can enjoy and learn about the species. The rains are approaching and for those who cross the river or stay where there are crocodiles, there is something you can learn. There is nothing wrong, for a change you can skip the music and food channel and discover the new natural wonders. I am also happy that our local television ZBCTV always throws such programs where they talk about animal behaviour and a survey conducted by Yours Truly, showed that these are some of the programs our fathers — ‘the oldies’ love to watch. So next time directors, if you want to lure more audience, involve what your target market wants.