The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter FORMER Zimbabwe senior national team player, Cephas Chimedza, has hailed More Love FC, a football project in Mabvuku, where he grew up. The 2004 Soccer Star of the Year said the club will benefit the community where he grew up. “I think there is talent in the high-density suburbs and lack of opportunities hinders the youngsters prospects,’’ the Belgium-based star said. “I am grateful to the guys who are behind this project. “It has been a while since we had a team from that side and I think it is going to open doors for the future stars. “It’s good to have a local club where young boys can go and enjoy their football rather than spend time in the streets. “The boys should play with pride because they are representing a big community. “They need to be serious, all the time, as they never know who will be watching them.’’ The Mabvuku/Tafara community have not had a competitive side since the demise of Circle United. Harare banker, Desmond Ali, tried to fill that void, by forming Ali Sundowns but could not last the distance. Meanwhile, barely two years after their formation, Avondale Athletic Club is making strides as they have managed to send three players for a three-week trial stint in Zambia with Kafue Celtic. Kafue Athletic are owned by Lee Kawanu, who is in partnership with Frédéric Kanouté, a former Mali professional footballer who played as a striker for several top-tier clubs in Europe. Kanouté was named the 2007 African Footballer of the Year, the first player born outside Africa, to win the award. The trio of Xavier Jonathan, George Gadziti and Xolani Tafiremutsa are trying out their luck with a club that is well known for providing a platform for players to Germany and Austria. Avondale Athletic Club, coach Knowledge Jemwa, believes, at least two players, will be signed by the side. Club director, Tawanda Musonza, said they were happy with the progress they have made. “I am very happy and they will be in Zambia for two weeks,’’ he said. “I hope they will leave a mark and if they do not get the contracts I think they will have learnt something.’’