The Herald LAHORE. — Pakistan head coach-cum-chief selector Misbahul Haq and bowling coach Waqar Younis have opened up about the squad selection process ahead of the series against Zimbabwe while talking to media at Gaddafi Stadium here yesterday. Misbah revealed the selectors would include players that can perform consistently during the ongoing National T20 Cup. “The T20I and ODI teams for the series against Zimbabwe will be announced on October 19 after the conclusion of the ongoing National T20 Cup,’’ he said. “We will be announcing a squad of either 22 or 23 players for the series. “We are also planning an inter-squad one-day encounter in Multan before the scheduled series. We are looking at the performances of all players. “We will give chances to players who can perform consistently well. New players are performing very well in the tournament.” Speaking about the inclusion of senior players in the squad, Misbah said: “We are still thinking about whether or not the seniors should be rested against Zimbabwe.” Younis revealed some of the young players would receive a chance to prove themselves in the upcoming series. “We shouldn’t say this but Zimbabwe will be a comparatively weaker opponent,’’ he said. ‘’This is the perfect time to test our youth. “Misbahul Haq also believes that youngsters should be tested. “Right now we have Shaheen Shah Afridi, Mohammad Hasnain and Haris Rauf who are new to the side. “If a player performs well during the ongoing National T20 Cup then he will surely be given a chance as well. We are all looking at the performances of the players. “The Zimbabwe series would be an excellent platform for youngsters. Playing a home series and performing well is the dream of every player.” The fast-bowling great also spoke about the decreasing interest in ODI cricket. “Everyone is more interested in watching T20 cricket rather than ODIs. The fanbase for ODIs is decreasing. All countries are trying to bring the excitement back into the ODI format,” he added. Meanwhile, Pakistan Cricket Board chief executive, Wasim Khan, is confident four of the top cricketing nations will tour the country, over the course of next couple of years. Khan also urged fans to stop worrying about playing bilateral series against India as it was unlikely in the current political climate. “We need to move on from this whole idea because whilst this current government is in place in India, the chances of bilateral series happening are dim,’’ he said. “The BCCI have to get government of India’s permission before they play Pakistan and that’s a fact. “So, based on that and the current regime in power, their outlook on life and their opinions on certain matters including their views on Pakistan, it is highly unlikely that in the near future, Pakistan will play India. “My message to fans and followers of Pakistan cricket is that we have achieved a lot so far and there is still a lot of hard work ahead, but, Pakistan cricket has a lot to look forward to without worrying about playing India.” Wasim is hopeful that England, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia will tour Pakistan in the near future. “We are looking forward to welcoming England in 2022 as we are South Africa in January 2021 and then New Zealand, followed by Australia in 2022 as well. “We have two big years ahead of us and the MCC tour has paved the way for county sides to visit Pakistan as well. We are also looking to bring in tours by A sides in the future. “With the four big nations coming over to Pakistan, without any disrespect to other cricket playing countries, I have to say that we deserve it as we have worked hard to make it happen. “Cricket needs these tours to happen in Pakistan and the fans also deserve to see some of the top nations play cricket on their soil.’’ The PCB CEO also spoke about the improved security situation in the country, while stressing on the importance of changing people’s perception about Pakistan. “We have already been offering the best safety and security as mentioned recently by Shane Watson who said that Pakistan is as safe as any other country to play cricket which is based on the fact that we had 40 overseas players here for four weeks during PSL 5. “They have all gone back with positive experiences as have MCC and county players. “That’s exactly what we want which is to change people’s perception of reality of what’s going in Pakistan.  “We are in a great place at the moment and we would like that to continue into the future,” he said. — cricketpakistan.