The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
WHEN Kaizer Chiefs, Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates expressed interest in signing Warriors forward, Terrence Dzvukamanja, the latter didn’t know where to go. Then, he remembered one man. The person who believed in him, when he was still a mere 17-year-old schoolboy, and signed him for a Division Two side in 2012. His name is Kifton “Somalia’’ Kadurira. “Good morning my mentor. As you may be aware, the three big teams have all expressed their interests in me. “I kindly need your advice,” wrote the striker on WhatsApp. And Kadurira, who is the Ngezi Platinum Stars Under-19 coach, didn’t take time to respond. “This is a very critical stage in your footballing life. You have since transformed from being a boy to a man. “Let’s consider just five factors…,” Kadurira replied. Yet, playing for Makwiro FC back in 2012, Dzvukamanja never thought one day he would ever attract the attention of some of Southern Africa’s biggest teams. “I should be honest with this. Yes, I loved the game but looking at my frame, I thought I wouldn’t really make it very big. “I don’t even know what Kadurira saw in me. “One day, as I was preparing to go to training with Makwiro, he called me and said, I want you to join Ngezi Platinum Stars. “I said fine, since the team was still playing in the Second Division, and it wasn’t going to be very difficult for me. “After all, I was not the only teenager in his team. There were the likes of Keith Murera in the team and I was feeling comfortable having my age-mates around. “But, to think that one day I would end up making waves like this, no, it never crossed my mind. “I will, forever, thank Kadurira for his guidance. He is the one who kept telling me that I would one day play in South Africa, and even beyond. “He pushed me, he gave me confidence to take on defenders and to believe in my ability. Otherwise. It would have been a different story.” Kadurira said he was charmed by Dzvukamanja after watching him play in just two games. “I saw a lot of potential in the boy. He had the passion to win and I was convinced he would grow to become a star of the game. “I even told his brother Admire (former Dynamos striker) that Terrence would surpass him and we laughed it off. “The boy is talented and, in as much as he has that small stature, his strength on the ball is unbelievable. “He will even attract interest, in Europe, if he keeps his head level, which I am very sure he will. “Together with Murera (Keith), he retained his place in my team from the time we were in Division 2, until he left Ngezi in 2018, for Bidvest Wits. “That says a lot about his ability.” Kadurira was demoted to an assistant to Tonderai Ndiraya when the team burst into the top-flight league. Ngezi won the Chibuku Super Cup and represented the country in the CAF Confederation Cup in 2017. The former Black Aces, Blackpool and Motor Action defender says he had no intention to venture into coaching, in the first place. But, after suffering a knee injury while turning out for Motor Action, his coach Joey Antipas assigned him to become his assistant.