The Herald Veronica Gwaze
MOST athletes encountered major obstacles in their lives when Covid-19 struck in February/March this year. But for former senior netball goal shooter, Tafadzwa Matura, who also turns out for Falcon Queens, the global pandemic presented a huge opportunity. As last year’s Rainbow Netball Amateur League (RANL) golden hand award winner, Matura would have seen a disruption in her bid to defend her title. Instead, she took it as an opportunity to further her education. Through netball, Matura, is employed under the Air Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ). During lockdown she took a Junior Tactics Course at Jason Ziyaphapha Base in Chegutu, a programme that she recently completed. “This is part of preparations for life after the court because by then I will be a soldier full-time, meaning that if there is any promotion to come then it has to be through other means not netball. In 26 games, last year Matura had already broken the golden hand record with 17 recognitions. By end of the season, Matura grabbed the top gong after netting 862 shots although her club finished off placed eighth overall. Matura says she is ready for resumption of the season, following completion of her course. “I took time to focus on my physical fitness, during the course, so that I can bounce back in fine form,” she says. “I was able to balance the two very well. If I did it, so can any player. In fact, players need to start preparing for life after the court and for me, now is the time.” From a girl who had to be whipped to go for a training back during her primary school days, she rose to become one of the most trusted shooters in the country. “It is funny how I used to hate netball. All I wanted and ever loved was short distance athletics and volleyball. In fact, my life was all about the two. “I dreamt of myself as a volleyball player but my elder brother, being a netball coach at Gawa Primary School in Bikita, forced me onto the netball court because of my height. “I would resist but he was determined. Sometimes he beat me to attend training, which eventually left me without a choice,” she reminisces. With time, she began to realise that she was talented as her height began to pay off. She rose to be her brother’s first choice shooter in the team. After bagging several accolades during her days at Tamuka Secondary, she was awarded a scholarship to complete her studies at Pamushana Mission School. In 2012, she joined Harare City Queens before finding home the following year at her current club, Air Force of Zimbabwe side, Falcon Queens. She later got employment within the Air Force of Zimbabwe, where she currently holds the rank of corporal. At the National Youth games in Hwange, in 2015, Matura captured the attention of the then Minister of Sports, Makhosini Hlongwane. His remarks to Zimbabwe Netball Association president, Leticia Chipandu, on the rare talent Hlongwane had spotted was the netballer’s breakthrough. The following year she received her first national team call-up making a stylish debut the same year at the Pent series in Namibia. She was also part of the squad that participated at the World Cup qualifiers in Zambia in 2018 although she did not make it to the finals in Liverpool last year. Falcon Queens’ head coach, Tapiwa Chirenda, described Matura as “unarguably” one of the unstoppable and consistent players under RANL. He spotted her during her days at Harare City Netball Club, years earlier. Then, his wish was to one day have Matura under his mentorship — a wish which was fulfilled a short while later as the two got together under the Air Force of Zimbabwe side. “When we finally got together under Falcon Queens, I mentored her and today I believe my efforts are paying off. “I don’t want to single out one player but Matura is a backbone for the club, you can switch her to any position at any given time and she delivers. “I am happy that she took advantage of the lockdown to further her education. Intelligent players prepare for life after the court in time,” says the gaffer.