The Herald Senior Arts Reporter All is set tonight for the inaugural disc jockey virtual launch show, which will see various disc jockeys from all the country’s 10 provinces participating. The virtual launch also coincide with the launch of Disc Jockeys Association of Zimbabwe (DJAZ). Some of the disc jockeys set to serenade fans online include Templeman, Candyman, Phatisani Sibanda, Tinashe Chikuse, Tamuka, Nash Abra, Fox and Merciless among others. Speaking to The Herald Arts, the interim chairman DJ Dollarbill, real name Hweva Mvura, said it was long overdue for deejaying to be recognised and taken serious as a profession as it sustains livelihoods. “We have gathered disc jockey representatives from the 10 provinces who include one professional and upcoming deejays to take part and the list also include female. It was long overdue as we need to correct the way we operate in the sector. We need to engage interested partners as a collective. It has been necessitated by the fact that we need to inspire people to pursue disc jockey as a profession that you can actually survive on and not a hobby or side hustle. We need to value and educate ourselves as an association,” he said. He said the association could play an influential role in creating an awareness through music. “The launch of the association will also be part of our campaign against Covid-19 with the intentions of creating the much needed awareness to the people, in a way also helping the Government and corporate world’s drive to educate the people and save lives. As an association, our mandate is  to protect disc jockeys and master of ceremonies, educating and assisting them. The association was formed after noticing the hardships that we face in the music sector and the absence of our representation in many national initiatives that benefit the country,” he said. DJ Dollarbill said although the event will be hosted on different social media platforms, with some guests doing a virtual presentation while others are set to grace the launch physically. He said the launch would incorporate the DJs’ annual Summerslam making it a 12-hour live-streaming starting from midday to 12 noon tomorrow. The Deputy Minister of Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation Honourable Tino Machakaire is expected to do a video presentation to be played at the launch while National Arts Council director Nicholas Moyo would be the guest of honour.