The Herald LONDON. — Substitute Manuel Lanzini scored an early contender for the Goal of the Season as West Ham came from three goals down to steal a point in a crazy 3-3 draw against Tottenham in the English Premiership yesterday. The forward hit a shot that swerved, and beat the goalkeeper, with what was probably the last piece of the action, to force the draw. The Hammers were trailing 0-3 going into the last 10 minutes of the game. The Lanzini goal sparked wild celebrations from the West Ham camp. This is just the third time in Premier League history that a side has avoided defeat despite trailing by at least three goals going into the 80th minute. The other times were West Brom versus Manchester United in May 2013 (5-5) and Norwich versus Middlesbrough in January 2005 (4-4). “It is one those special moments in football. Like it was meant to be. Not the start we wanted. But we felt like were playing good football. For some reason they dropped off us. “Once we got one we felt we could get a draw. Moment of brilliance from Manu. “Against a team like Spurs, 3-0 down you are thinking no more goals, close it off. But we were creating chances. Second one came right after the first. It was always gonna be a goal like that to get the draw. “I can’t imagine what it is like for Manu to score that. As soon as it has left his foot… you can see the reaction,’’ West Ham midfielder Declan Rice told Sky Sports. And, former Liverpool defender, Steve Warnock, speaking on BBC Radio 5 Live, said he could barely believe it. “I can’t believe it because of the way Tottenham played in the first half and the way they dominated the first half of the second half as well. “They were creating chances. Gareth Bale should have scored to put the game to bed. “But West Ham’s resilience, the way they fought back and believed in what they were doing. It was a magnificent second half. “I am lost for words.’’ Tottenham were utterly dominant in the first half, with Harry Kane scoring a brace and Son also finding the net. It seemed inevitable that they would see out the win, but West Ham responded superbly. Balbuena reduced the deficit, Davinson Sanchez scored an own goal and then Lanzini scored a memorable goal. — BBC Sport.