The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United swooped for Edinson Cavani, among four signings on Monday, but Arsenal completed the biggest deal of transfer deadline day with the arrival of midfielder Thomas Partey from Atletico Madrid. Dutch international midfielder Donny van de Beek had been the only addition to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s squad prior to Monday’s arrival of Cavani, Alex Telles, Amad Diallo and Facundo Pellistri. Cavani (33) has been a free agent since leaving Paris Saint-Germain in June and signed a one-year deal with the option for a second season. The Uruguayan scored 200 goals in seven seasons in the French capital to become the club’s all-time top goalscorer. “Manchester United is one of the greatest clubs in the world, so it is a real honour to be here,” said Cavani. “I’ve worked really hard during the time off and I feel eager to compete and represent this incredible club.” The arrival of left-back Telles from Porto for £13.5 million is arguably even more important to aid a United defence that has conceded 11 goals in three Premier League games to start the season. “He is a player we have been tracking for some time and his performances over the past few years are exactly what we are looking for,” said Solskjaer on the Brazilian international. “He is a fighter and a winner and will add real determination and competition to the squad.” After a forlorn chase of Borussia Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho, United also secured two promising 18-year-old wingers in Uruguayan Pellistri from Penarol and Atalanta’s Diallo, who will join in January in a deal that could reportedly reach up to 41 million euros. Partey has been a long-term target for the Gunners, who have matched his 50 million euro buyout clause to bolster their threadbare midfield options. The Ghanaian has made 188 appearances for the Spanish giants and was part of the Atletico sides that reached the 2016 Champions League final and beat Arsenal on the way to winning the Europa League in 2018. Transfer deadline day signings Tosin Adarabioyo: Manchester City to Fulham Facundo Pellistri: Peñarol to Manchester United Robin Olsen: Roma to Everton (Loan) Thomas Partey: Atletico Madrid to Arsenal (£52.5million) Lucas Torreira: Arsenal to Atletico Madrid (Loan) Sandro Ramirez: Everton to Huesca Joachim Andersen: Lyon to Fulham (Loan) Theo Walcott: Everton to Southampton (Loan) Raphinha: Rennes to Leeds United (£15.2m) Edinson Cavani: free agent to Manchester United Aleix Garcia: Manchester City to Dinamo Bucharest Orjan Nyland: released by Aston Villa Amad Diallo: Atalanta to Manchester United (£37m – joins in January, subject to medical, personal terms and work permit) Josh Knight: Leicester to Wycombe Wanderers (Loan) Sofiane Boufal: Southampton to Angers (Free) Xande Silva: West Ham to Aris Thessaloniki (Loan) Wesley Hoedt: Southampton to Lazio (Loan) Chris Smalling: Manchester United to Roma (£18million) Josh Cullen: West Ham to Anderlecht (£1m) Jack Wilshere: released by West Ham Rachid Ghezzal: Leicester to Besiktas (Loan) Daniel Grimshaw: Manchester City to Lommel SK (Loan) Tiemoue Bakayoko: Chelsea to Napoli (Loan) Alex Telles: Porto to Manchester United (£13.5m) Guido Carrillo: Southampton to Elche (Free) Matteo Guendouzi: Arsenal to Hertha Berlin (Loan) Ruben Vinagre: Wolves to Olympiacos (Loan) Christoph Klarer: Southampton to Fortuna Dusseldorf Dan Ballard: Arsenal to Blackpool (Loan) Alex Cochrane: Brighton to Royale Union Saint-Gilloise (Loan) Ryan Sessegnon: Tottenham Hotspur to Hoffenheim (Loan) Ben Godfrey: Norwich City to Everton (£20m) — AFP.