The Herald LONDON. — Zimbabwe-born British heavyweight boxer Derek Chisora firmly believes that a stunning victory over Oleksandr Usyk will secure another world title shot after Tyson Fury “promised” him a third fight. Chisora will attempt to produce a sensational victory over Usyk this coming Saturday with the winner staying firmly in world title contention. Usyk is already the WBO mandatory challenger for unified champion Joshua, but Chisora wants to snatch this status from the Ukrainian star or pursue a trilogy clash with WBC champion Fury. “I think it would be a great fight to have with ‘The Gypsy King’, because he’s always promised me a third fight. He owes me anyway, because we speak every day, and he owes me that fight. “He’s always saying he wants to give me another fight, so he’s a man of his word, so that would be the fight I would like to have.” Chisora has already fought both Carlos Takam and Agit Kabayel, the frontrunners for Fury’s homecoming fight in December. The Finchley man brutally knocked out Takam in 2018, just eight months after a tame points loss to Kabayel in 2017. Chisora remains on good terms with Fury, who defeated him on points and with a stoppage in their two fights, while he also speaks regularly to Joshua. “You know what, I get on with everybody, but when it comes to fight, it’s fight time. “It’s just business. After all, when the gloves are off, it’s all hugs and kisses, so if it happens, it happens.” Takam has already fought for a world title in Britain, providing stubborn resistance before he was stopped by Anthony Joshua in 2017, and has campaigned at a higher level than Kabayel. Joe DeGuardia, the president of Star Boxing, who co-promote Takam with Top Rank, told Sky Sports: “Certainly I believe that, when you look at who is out there and who is available, Carlos would probably be the best guy out there to fight Fury. “Kabayel is undefeated and that’s something good for him and he’s got a nice victory, but it would be good for Kabayel if he had a little more experience before fighting somebody like Fury. “Carlos certainly has that experience.” Kabayel has previously held the European title and holds a record of 20 victories, including 13 knockouts. Asked when a decision could be made about Fury’s opponent, DeGuardia said: “This would be something that’s going to happen relatively soon.” Meanwhile, Usyk and Chisora’s shared “desire” not to waste time in the world title hunt was the crucial factor in finalising a fight that has been a year in the making, says promoter Eddie Hearn. Usyk will risk his status as WBO mandatory challenger to Joshua’s title when he steps into just his second heavyweight fight, against Chisora, on Saturday. The fight was initially agreed for May, but was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic and has now been re-agreed. Hearn described the process to Sky Sports: “A series of discussions. But it really came down to their desire of the fighters. “When two people want to fight, generally you get it over the line. — Sky Sports. 