The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international forward, Talent Chawapihwa, says he is looking for a strong start to the new DStv Premiership campaign with his side AmaZulu. The club’s new owners have demanded that Usuthu must start competing for the top four, in the league, instead of just battling relegation. Chawapihwa, who has been overlooked for the upcoming Zimbabwe international friendly match against Malawi, told the AmaZulu website he wanted to play a big part in the new campaign. “As a player, I am feeling very excited because it is a new beginning and it is the start of a new season,’’ he said. “Everyone has the same opportunity to do better. “How we start the season will determine how we will end the season. So far, everything is going well (regarding pre-season training).” The pacy forward helped Usuthu finish 13th on the Premiership standings in his first full campaign with the club. The competition will now be known as the DStv Premiership and Chawapihwa said there was need for them to have a good start. AmaZulu coach, Ayanda Dlamini, is preparing for his maiden full season as the club’s head gaffer, after guiding the team to safety last season as an interim coach. “Everyone understands coach Ayanda because, even before he was the head coach, he would come and watch (our training sessions),’’ said Chawapihwa. “He knows the style of the team and it is good to have him around. “He is someone who has played the game before and someone who understands football and players better.’’ The 28-year-old believes the team will benefit from the AmaZulu’s new assistant coach Allan Freese, who joined the club at the end of the 2019/20 season. “With coach Freese coming in, it is a major boost because you cannot buy his experience. “The experience that he has will help us in the new season and beyond that.” Freese previously served as the assistant coach at Highlands Park and he also guided Platinum Stars to MTN8 and Telkom Knockout Cup triumphs in 2013. AmuZulu were sold to businessman, Sandile Zungu. The 2020/21 season is set to get underway on October 17 with the MTN8 quarter-finals, with the opening rounds of the DStv Premiership set to start on October 24. With DStv set to officially take their place, as the new headline sponsor, it has further been confirmed the Premiership winners will continue to walk away with R15-million prize money for the foreseeable future. The MultiChoice Group, through their subsidiary SuperSport, have also acquired exclusive rights to broadcast Ethiopian Premier League matches. The East African league will join a portfolio of football properties, which include the Zambian Premier League and Supa Diski. “Through SuperSport, we are the leading broadcaster of sport in Africa, with our programming being viewed by millions of fans continent-wide,’’ said MultiChoice group chief executive, Calvo Mawela. “Sport is an integral part of our content offering and supporting the development of sport content makes sense for our business. “This partnership will give the Ethiopian Premier League greater visibility, attracting fans from across the continent.” Ethiopian Premier League chairman, Fekade Mamo, said this was a landmark development for them. “We recognise the importance of having the right partners on board to contribute in growing our league and to cultivate local talent. “This is a significant step forward for the league, and will create a brighter future for players, the industry, and bring Ethiopian football closer to the world.” SuperSport will produce the broadcasts, alongside the empowerment of local production staff.