The Herald LONDON. — Ferran Torres scored his first Manchester City goal as the League Cup holders got back on track with a 3-0 win against Burnley, while Manchester United joined their English Premiership football rivals in the quarter-finals after beating Brighton 3-0 on Wednesday night. Pep Guardiola’s side suffered their heaviest home English Premier League loss under the Spaniard on Sunday when Leicester handed them a humiliating 5-2 defeat. A brace from Raheem Sterling at Turf Moor ensured they washed away some of that bitter taste from that defeat and Spanish forward Torres, a close-season signing from Valencia, added City’s third goal. City have won the League Cup four times in the last five seasons and they remain on course to retain the trophy. Guardiola’s men would have won by an even bigger scoreline but for a fine display from Burnley keeper Bailey Peacock-Farrell. Sterling and Kevin De Bruyne both started in a strong City side that also included Riyad Mahrez and a debut for 18-year-old midfielder Cole Palmer. Sterling made the breakthrough 10 minutes before the interval with a powerful strike from Benjamin Mendy’s cross. The City forward doubled his tally on 49 minutes, finishing off a good move involving De Bruyne and Torres. City put the result beyond doubt in the 65th minute when Sterling failed to control a Mahrez pass and the ball ran through for the 20-year-old Torres to slam past Peacock-Farrell. At the Amex Stadium, Manchester United inflicted more misery on Brighton four days after beating them 3-2 in a dramatic Premier League game. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side needed a 100th minute Bruno Fernandes penalty to see off Albion on that occasion and conceding an equaliser moments early. There was less drama this time as United made 10 changes and Brighton nine, with Solskjaer’s stand-ins proving far superior. United, who last won the League Cup in 2017, took the lead in the 44th minute when Scott McTominay headed home from Juan Mata’s free-kick. United doubled their advantage in the 73rd minute, with Donny Van De Beek finding Spanish midfielder Mata, who showed slotted home his 50th goal for the club. Paul Pogba came off the bench to score seven minutes later when his free-kick curled in via a deflection off Brighton’s Joel Veltman. — AFP.