The Herald Edward Zvemisha Arts Reporter
It was a case of a magician and a hit maker. This describes the atmosphere, tension and mood at the recently held disc jockey battle hosted on social media by 1202 Herbal Solution. It was long overdue, the debate was settled between Gweru-bred Tamuka Mponda-Makuluni, affectionately known as DJ Tamuka and Mbare kingpin Rodger Tafadzwa Kadzimwe (Levels), who proved their mantle as they dished out songs which they produced. Although the online battle was marred by poor sound, the two artistes caused a stir, with some fans requesting the battle be hosted in front of a live crowd. The event was hosted by radio presenter Miss Vee Candy (Nonhlanhla Thuthani), who sailed flawlessly during her presentation. Some fans who watched the clash live, appreciated the initiative, stating that it created constructive competition within the music industry. “This is a true reflection of how these two have worked hard and synced with plenty of talented artistes,” posted Godfrey Bakasa. Dj Levels dished out tracks from the Zimdancehall genre, which some said he was much popular with. He played songs like “Paita Party” by Winky D, Ras Caleb (Tokwe Mukosi), Bazooker, (Handikukwata) and Enzo Ishall (Mama). DJ Tamuka had his fair share of the cake as he played Simba Tagz and Ex Q’s tune “Zvakanaka”, Nutty O’s “Safe”, Mambo Dhuterere (Mweya Ndisesekedze) and Jah Prayzah featuring Yemi Alade’s “Nziyo yerudo”. In an interview with The Herald Arts, DJ Tamuka said the competition was nice and the clash did not end in violence as most clashes do. “It was good and what I liked from my side is that there was maturity and there was no violence,” he said. “It was a great competition and I am still to get a clear understanding from the organisers of the show on what actually happened at the end of the show.” Levels said basing on what transpired, he declared himself the winner and still wanted the battle to continue. “I want more time with DJ Tamuka to prove my worth,” he said. “I am not only representing Mbare, but Zimbabwe at large. I can say that I have won the battle and I have more in stall for him, he can come anytime.” 1202 Herbal Solution was non-committal on the winner. “We will get back to you, what if we decided not to talk about the issue,” said a lady who answered her mobile phone and refused to state her name.