The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
THE ZIFA and PSL Medical Committee say they will work flat out to meet deadlines to have players return to training by next month as required by the top-flight league. The PSL have indicated players, and club officials are expected to take Covid-19 tests this week, with training scheduled for next week. Yesterday, the medical committee chaired by renowned doctor, Edward Chagonda, said they cannot divulge much until they have met the ZIFA and PSL competitions committee. However, he said they were committed to meet the PSL deadlines. “We will sit down with the technical persons, that is ZIFA and PSL competitions, to work out on finer modalities and how we will operate,’’ he said. “The meeting will touch on the testing details, such as whether we are going to engage other private testing centres, or they would be done exclusively, all that and a whole of other issues, will be discussed in the meetings. “I would only be able to give a final position, on how we are proceeding, after we have done the proper things and conducted meetings with the relevant people. “But, I am sure we will work on beating the deadlines suggested by PSL.’’ League chairman, Farai Jere, on Tuesday told The Herald ZIFA were going to avail the funding and everything was on course. “The PSL Medical Committee is working on the modalities of safe resumption of training. We are glad that ZIFA is going to avail the funds for that,” he said. “It was going to be an uphill task for the clubs, most of whom are operating on shoe-string budgets. “So, ZIFA will disburse the funds for Covid-19 testing, thermometers and sanitisers. “We are going to do everything, in line with the protocols provided by the Government. “We are hoping that training will start next Monday and it will run for six weeks. “We cannot have short-cuts on that because the players need the time to condition themselves and also to avoid exposing them to injuries,” said Jere. The bubble, for the mini league, is expected to start around first week of December, after clubs had conducted their pre-season training. However, a number of top flight clubs yesterday said they were yet to receive any communication regarding the latest developments. Highlanders’ chief executive, Nhlanhla Dube, said they were aware of the Government policy and they will be guided by PSL. “We have seen the Government communication, through the SRC, that’s a policy direction, and the matrix comes from football authorities. “We haven’t received any communication,” he said. CAPS United vice-president, Nhamo Tutisani, said they always anticipated that football would return. “We have more questions than answers, so we are waiting for a circular on the return guidelines,’’ he said. “We have always been preparing, so we have intensified our administration preparations, as we are looking for 2021 season. “Our administration team was in meetings, working on transport logistics and training venues. “We will be training at Mount Pleasant High School and, if there is need, we will spruce up the facility.’’