The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
TAKASHINGA Patriots coach, Erick Chauluka, wants his side to pick up the pieces from the loss to Gladiators by winning their last match. They are targeting lifting the inaugural National Premier League cricket title. The Highfield side will wrap up their campaign tomorrow when they travel to Kwekwe Sports Club to face Amakhosi. Takashinga have dominated the 45-over competition but they had their campaign derailed, at the weekend, when they fell to an unexpected 86-run defeat to Gladiators. Chauluka said the defeat, in the penultimate round, was largely due to complacency. The log leaders put up their worst performance, in the tournament, when they were cleaned up for 96 runs at home, chasing a modest target of 182, to win the match. “I think the guys were just complacent. I am sure they didn’t take the game seriously because we have been winning all our matches previously. “But, we take it as a lesson learnt,” said Chauluka. “Fortunately we are still on top and, hopefully, we will pick ourselves and continue with the fight. “We need a positive result to give ourselves a good chance of winning the tournament. “Amakhosi have been winning games, of late, and we, obviously, expect them to come firing in all directions. “So, we have to psyche up the boys and focus on playing well, just like we have been doing all along.” Chauluka’s side have won five of the seven games they have played and are still at the top of the table, going into the final round matches this week. They are level on 50 points with second-placed MidWest Rhinos, who have a bye during the week, and will face Great Zimbabwe Patriots in their last match this Sunday. The two leading teams are separated by a slender net run rate. However, Amakhosi, who are on 32 points, also still have a mathematical chance. The Bulawayo side have a game in hand and could take competition to the wire in the event they beat Takashinga tomorrow and then get another positive result against Gladiators in their last outing. “The tournament has been very competitive. MidWest Rhinos, Easterns and Amakhosi have always been breathing down our necks and I must say that really pushed us. said Chauluka.  NPL Fixtures Tomorrow Takashinga v Amakhosi (Kwekwe Sports Club), Queens v Easterns (Masvingo Sports Club), Gladiators v Harare Kings (Harare Sports Club), Great Zimbabwe v Rainbow (Old Hararians)