The Herald MADRID. — A Spanish journalist has apologised after comparing Barcelona’s Ansu Fati to a “black street vendor’’ in the Catalan giants’ 5-1 Champions League win over Ferencvaros. Fati, 17, the first player under the age of 18 to score two Champions League goals, scored and made a goal in Tuesday’s match. Spanish journalist Salvador Sostres’ match report in Spanish newspaper ABC likened the Spain winger to a “black street vendor” who “you suddenly see running” when the police arrive. Writing in Spanish, Sostres said: “Ansu’s running has something of a gazelle, of a very young and black street vendor that you suddenly see running along Paseo de Gracia (a major avenue in Barcelona) when someone shouting ‘water, water’ announced that the Guardia Urbana (police) had arrived. “Wild pictures in the heart of the city. “Now, this does not happen, because, for (Barcelona mayor) Ada Colau, the criminals are the police and not the street sellers, who no longer have to run away. “It is also true that, without tourists, business is rather weak.” French forward Antoine Griezmann condemned the racial slur. The report was also quickly posted and condemned on Twitter. “Ansu is an exceptional boy who deserves respect like any human being,” Griezmann said. “No to racism and no to bad education.” A statement issued by ABC read: “Given the uproar caused by a comment made by Salvador Sostres, in relation to the Barcelona player Ansu Fati in the report of Barcelona’s last game, the author wishes to communicate the following: “In my report about Barcelona’s match against Ferencvaros, in my desire to praise the beauty of Ansu’s movements, and his class as a very young player, some expressions were taken as racist contempt. “Nothing is further from my intention, nor from my opinion. I’m very favourable to the player as I have expressed in all my reports since he debuted. I am deeply sorry for the misunderstanding and I apologise to anyone who may have been offended.” The Guinea-Bissau-born winger moved to Spain at the age of six, where he made his way through the Herrera and Sevilla academies, before joining Barcelona in 2012 at the age of 10. — BBC Sport/The Independent.