The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Respected sungura musician and Khiama Boys founder Nicholas Zakaria has joined hands with his protégé and Cobra Kings band leader Simon Mutambi for a new album which is hitting the streets today. The official album launch will take place at a private function to be held in the Court Yard Gardens at Cresta Oasis Hotel in Harare tonight. The six track album titled “Zadziso” is the 28th studio album for the left handed guitarist who has won himself the moniker ‘Senior Lecturer’ for his ability to nurture young musicians from all walks of life and various genres. Speaking to The Herald Arts, Madzibaba said all was set for what promises to be an exciting private album launch today and he was humbled by the support received. “The Covid-19 pandemic has been a big let-down for us and consistent with Government and health authorities’ regulations, we are hosting a private function at Cresta Oasis Hotel from 7pm to 10pm,” he said. “I am really happy with the support and level of coordination invested in this project. It’s a testimony that the good times are back at Khiama Boys. “Only 100 guests will attend the launch and there will be strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations. All guests must come in with their face masks on and make sure they are temperature checked and sanitised. “The goal is to make sure that the music reaches our audience even under the current situation and I want to thank our brand management agency, Esteem Communications, for putting this together.” Of the new album, Zakaria said he was happy to be giving his fans an early Christmas present. “The album “Zadziso” to me is a celebration of the strides I have taken since I started my music journey and the fulfilment that I am beginning to realise from my work,” he said. “I am enjoying a lot of goodwill from the media, music stakeholders and the corporate world and I just want to share my gratitude for that. “Mutambi approached me for this joint album. It carries three tracks by Simon Mutambi, which are ‘Mufaro’, ‘Chitsaru’ and ‘Hupenyu Ivhiri’. My songs are ‘Bvuma Kurairwa’, ‘Zvemazuvano’ and ‘Pafunge’.” Mutambi said he was excited to be on the album as it was a dream come true for him. “I grew up listening to Madzibaba and was a huge fan,” he said. “He made me to love sungura so much and I have been following his footsteps. We gave it our all on the album and fans should expect an exciting project.  “It is unfortunate we can’t be holding nationwide shows and we are waiting for the situation to be conducive. I also want to thank some of our sponsors who include Milton Trucking, EzeeKleen Detergents, Kitchen Link and Bullion Group, among others, who made this project a success.”