The Herald Senior Arts Reporter
Organisers of the inaugural choral music competition dubbed, ‘Festival of Song” have extended their deadline for submission by two more weeks to cater for other provinces. Aspiring choral groups were expected to submit their videos between October 1 and 31 but now have been given more time to polish up until November 15. The Festival of Song which was launched early this month where aspiring musical and choral group are expected to send a video recording of their choice is running under the them, “Zimbabwe Tasangana”. The top 10 videos will be posted on the show organisers’ social media page. In an interview festival director, Joseph Ndhlovu said a handful of groups had already submitted their videos. “So far, we have eight videos and others have already communicated with us  stating that they were putting final touches to their videos. Because we want to reach a wider market and give more people time, we have decided to extend the date for submission by two more weeks. In the first round, the song should be of their choice. Choirs are advised to be unique as this round has more to do with creativity. The song should have a minimum of four parts such as soprano, alto, tenor and bass. A minimum of 15 members is required for a choir to participate,” he said. He said the competition, which will be hosted virtually due to current Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, aims to unite communities. “Music is a very powerful tool. We are setting up a platform were any choir from which ever background or church can share a grand stage and celebrate music. “We have decided to go ahead and launch the festival because there has been a lot of down time for choirs. We decided to end the year with some activity to celebrate life and our music and our oneness, hence the theme “Zimbabwe Tasangana”. In the second round choirs will be recorded performing a different song and they are expected to provide a musical score for the  piece,” he said. Ndlovu said the choirs with most likes on social media qualify for the final. “The 10 most popular videos (most liked) will enter the second round were they will be recorded professionally by Mushawakanaka Trust, our media partner. Their music will be adjudicated by renowned South African musician Sibusiso Mkhize and local pianist Tinashe Jera. The winning choir will get to record an album with Monolio Studios (Clive Monomukundu),” he explained.