The Herald Princess Thandeka Tshuma Midlands State University It is debatable whether wisdom is the same as knowledge. Yet failing to accomplish our goals in life and failing to realize our talents has everything to do with having little wisdom or not having it at all. The question that arises is, how does someone get to have wisdom? Unlike knowledge, wisdom is not attained by reading a variety of books or exploring the world. Wisdom is from the word wise, meaning the ability to differentiate between the good and the bad. Wisdom is an element of personal character that enables one to distinguish the wise from the unwise. It is an ability that helps one to apply the relevant knowledge correctly and to know truth in different situations. Wisdom helps to distinguish the good from the bad and that plays a pivotal role in our lives because through wisdom we do not get involved in bad activities. Wisdom is like light that comes to drive away darkness. Hezel  R Murungweni Midlands State University University students have created their own competitive environment in terms of lifestyles. The set-up mirrors society, where there is social stratification comprising upper, middle and lower classes, determined by the wealth one has. Consequently, students are resorting to different approaches in order to get to the top, driven in part by fear of being perceived as outdated or backward. Students are trying to emulate the lives of celebrities they see on social media platforms. In the process they have become ardent consumers of foreign culture, to the detriment of ours. In this respect, female students try to find easier ways of financing the “celebrity” lifestyles, leading to transactional relations with older partners. Regrettably this practice has become widespread across campuses throughout the country and the frightening aspect is that there are some female students who are even proud of the practice. The conduct is not, however, confined to female students because there are also some male students, who look for extra money by linking female students to “partners” especially during weekends. The male students, in return, get paid for their services. The third category of students who are leading a different lifestyle is that of students who have become entrepreneurs through the sale of different goods such as beauty products, clothes, shoes, and foodstuffs. Universities, therefore, do not change students’ behaviour, rather it is the students themselves who have created a perception of themselves, which they try by all means to live up. Tafadzwa Madimbu Midlands State University Drugs pose the greatest threat to the future of the youths. Careers are being destroyed at universities and in communities as a result of drug and substance abuse. Students are becoming junkies, failing to attend lectures and losing interest in educational activities. Most of the violent cases are precipitated by reliance on drugs. I can confidently say that drugs are responsible for the erosion of morals among youths in Zimbabwe. Most cases of violence among students are linked to the use of drugs. Students who consume drugs end up resorting to illegal activities such as stealing or being involved in violent activities which could get them or innocent civilians injured. Marijuana is the most commonly abused drug in universities because of its cheap price and its abundance. Crystal meths and cocaine are also finding their way onto the streets and that is alarming as there are health and safety concerns associated with these drugs. Crystal meths is the common name for crystal methamphetamine, locally known as (mutoriro or kuteverwa) a strong and highly addictive drug that affects the central nervous system. If smoked, snorted or injected into a vein it causes disturbed sleep patterns, violent behaviour, memory loss and inevitably permanent damage to blood vessels of the heart and brain, high blood pressure leading to heart attacks, strokes and finally death. The first step in fighting drug abuse is eliminating corruption within the law enforcement agencies (Drugs section). The law enforcement officers in these agencies, who are paid from taxpayers’ money must protect the lives of Zimbabweans by closing the loopholes that allow drug peddlers to operate and thus threatening the lives of youths. There is need for awareness and educational campaign to ensure that the students are enlightened on the dangers of drugs and drug abuse .The most important remedy to substance misuse is to keep the students occupied and by means of counselling. Kudakwashe Machiwenyika Midlands State University The Coronavirus pandemic outbreak has brought with it enormous socio-economic challenges for many students. Online lessons were introduced to help students to access professional assistance to their education. However, it had quite a number of challenges due to the socio-economic issues. Restricted access to radios, television, computers, internet and data have become a major headache because of issues around  connectivity, access, affordability, reliability, consistency and a host of others. It became apparent that Students living in rural areas were the most disadvantaged while many parents were burdened by costs associated with trying to continue educating their children during school closures. Children with disabilities were also disadvantaged because of limited resources. The economic environment saw many distressing challenges in which quite a number of parents lost their jobs. Financial insecurity, stress and uncertainty also led to increased aggression at home. Domestic, intimate partner violence and child abuse cases increased during this lockdown period. This has affected students psychologically. The abuse of women and girls abuse worsened under the lockdown. A number of girls became pregnant due to poor decision-making and spending more time with their boyfriends, to the detriment of their studies. In some cases incidents of students involvement in drug abuse in which they have turned to be like monsters and reports of drug abuse have increased. It is tragic that some of these students are now on police records at a tender age, which could affect their future. The lockdown has brought about cases of depression, anxiety, poor internet connectivity and unfavourable study environments. Vincent Musiyamhanje Midlands State University He calls his father to ask for more money for rent and stuff, only to be met with a stiff and determined voice that sternly informs him there is no money. “Ah, I will call Mom,” he thinks to himself, “she will help me out,” using the past that was full of unconditional maternal love as backup. Alas! The sweet voice that he knew was laced with raw honey from the bee hive for so long, sounds like a construction site full of the cacophony of cranes. Vesuvius now scratches his itchy busty beard in his one room that he calls home, pondering the past. He turns on the radio after repeated efforts because it is in need of thorough repair. The radio blares out “A Living Prayer” by Madonna, and that song sends him down memory lane at once with an epiphany. 