The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — South Africa rugby captain Siya Kolisi said he can’t contain his excitement ahead of SuperSport’s ground-breaking Chasing the Sun documentary that was aired last night. The documentary, which chronicles the Springboks’ path to World Cup glory in Japan last year, aired its first episode of five last night on MNet. And Kolisi, who led the Green team into battle in the Springbok Showdown on Saturday, is very keen to pull up a chair and watch. Not only because it will bring back some exceptional memories, but also because he will use it as motivation to spur himself on to greater heights personally in future. “I’m very excited to see that documentary,” Kolisi said on Friday. “I think that will just take me back, to remind me and might help me with my rugby. I remember where I was mentally and physically during that whole period of time and I want to get back there. “That is the goal that I’m chasing, I want to get there and be better than that. That is what I measure myself against each and every single day and obviously, we want that feeling every single day when we put on that jersey. “That is what our unions deserve, each and every time we step out onto the field, you want to perform like that. You’ve shown to yourself what you can do, you want to show that to your teams and your union that there is something you hold yourself accountable to.” Kolisi said the way the team inspired South Africans during this time was something that will always remain special to him and he can’t wait to share the journey with South Africans. “The way we made people feel during that time, it is just one of those things that we want to work towards every single time. To make the country feel better. Like coach Rassie (Erasmus) said, it is a privilege for us to be doing what we are doing, whether you are playing for your union or for any of the Springboks, you should never take it for granted. “That is what we want to do each and every single week, so I’m excited for that, and I want to watch it with my whole family at home. I think it is going to be amazing. “I think people are going to see what we go through each and every week. Everybody has a voice and we share the leadership amongst the team. “Every time I do a talk, I am referring to something that we did at the World Cup, or what coach Rassie or Jacques (Nienaber) said, so I am really looking forward to it. “I think people are going to enjoy it.” — Supersport.com)