The Herald Leona A Mwadiwa Midlands State University Parenting can be a very difficult task especially when a child is much older and difficult to control. It can be single parenting or both parents but it is a job that requires a lot of work, time and commitment because raising children is a lot of work. Family always comes first. Many make the mistake that family becomes non-essential because they are grown up. The truth is youths need their family’s support as much as they needed it when they were infants. It is agreeable that relationships with parents usually change when children reach the adolescence stage. Most youths and their parents experience hardships during this stage because once a child thinks they are mature enough it becomes difficult to control them. Youths face challenges staying with their parents because they spend most of their time on their phones or computers and do not appear to have time for the family. Social media has become their new family. As a result, parents do not quite know who their children are these days because of technology. Youths would rather let the world know what is going on in their lives than tell their parents. Social media is destroying relationships between parents and their children. This is seen in the way the youths answer back and speak rudely to their elders, forgetting norms and values that society expects of them. Youths seem to believe they can solve problems in life without parental guidance, simply because they are grown up. Often they forget the boundaries set by their parents. They tend to over step them and that brings conflict. One thing that most youths are good at is doing exactly the opposite of what they are told not to do. They start abusing drugs, staying out late just to be rebellious and show their parents that they can do anything they want. However, some become problematic in order to get their parents’ attention as parents would be too busy working than monitoring their children. Parents may think that their teens are being wild and careless but they should sometimes understand where the youths are coming form. Some may just be seeking the attention that they do not get form their parents. Communication at this stage is essential.  For instance, the girl child needs much more attention because going through puberty and body change is a challenge. A little attention can do the trick. What these youths and parents staying together need is better communication. Parents should give their children roles in decision-making for the household, help each other agree and make rules that are fair to everyone, have family meetings once in a while and even a getaway, if affordable. You might give a child all the money in the world, but they will not be happy without parental love and attention. ***** John Chamboko Midlands State University The sad reality about family setup is that parents are the root cause of division between siblings because of a practice favouring certain children over others. This favouritism by parents or guardians has affected many families. This causes more harm than good. Favouring a child at the expense of others breeds animosity among family members. Once there is a perception of a favourite child, seeds of resentment are sown. When division starts to manifest in a family, it cannot pull in the same direction. Most families only meet during funerals and weddings and most of the family meetings are full of quarrels, the battle for supremacy.  It gets worse when the parents are deceased. The hatred is carried through to future generations. Parenting behaviour can have the effect of nurturing selfish and negative influences on a child’s education, especially ones from an unstable families.  In families there is social attachment and emotional bond. This serves as the foundation for association between the family set-up and child performance at college/university.  A child who comes from an unstable family background is relatively hard to interact and associate with. At university community level, a child who has this background will be affected academically. The way a child socializes at home has far-reaching implications on their educational career. Charity begins at home. Parents should not give their children something to use against each other. In Proverbs 22: 6, the Bible says: “Train up a child in the way he should go. And when he is old he will not depart from it.”  Meaning, that family is the primary stage responsible for child training pointing out that it is the first social influence in nurturing children and success is anchored on love and unity in the family. In traditional set up, siblings used to eat from the same plate. This fostered unity and respect in the family. Parents need to go back to strong family ties for their children to be successful in life. ***** Christine Mlambo Midlands State University After a long period of anticipation, Midlands State University (MSU) opens its doors to students. Schools were closed in March this year in order to minimize the spread of Covid-19.  With physical learning disrupted, the MSU resorted to online. Online learning came with its advantages and disadvantages. For most students online learning has been a hassle, because data is expensive and one cannot afford it to attend lectures. One cannot compare online learning with physical learning.  Some students are not really bothered about the online learning as they can easily afford the data  and also that the  online learning  is cost-effective  in that it cuts the costs of travelling to and from university, accommodation and food. Recently Midlands State University, announced the opening dates for students. The calendar brought about a lot of anxiety to students. One lecturer says he is concerned because students were not performing well during the online lessons but hopes they will do well in the three weeks allocated for examinations. The resumption of schools has also brought mixed feelings among parents as some believe the opening of schools is good because they want their children to finish their programmes and carry on with their lives. They are also happy that at last academically 2020 is not a year wasted for their children. However, other parents fear for the safety of their children and hope that schools will adhere to the Covid-19 regulations. ***** Nyasha Pfungwa Chitiga Midlands State University Every university student dreams of having good grades and passing their studies. However, there are a lot of requirements needed to obtain good grades. Internet is one of the most important tools needed because students rely on it mostly for research. The Internet has become a necessity for a lot of students as the bulk of the learning is done online and therefore requires the internet. For most parents, however, school fees, accommodation and groceries are the necessities for a student to attain good grades and accomplish their studies. Children use the internet for other purposes such as Facebook, twitter and WhatsApp interactions but these social media platforms have negative influences on students.  Some students, forever glued to their mobile devices, ignore their parents. This is the reason why some parents view internet as a disadvantage to university students. ***** Delony Mukarati Midlands State University Many students find themselves in a dilemma over passion or paycheck as the driving force behind which study programmes to pursue  and whether in the end they are going to be hired and for how much. Yet when one is pursuing something, there has to be evidence of passion. The paycheck chasers are at work in order to fulfil a duty, get back home and await their paycheck at the end of the month. Consequently, degree programmes are evaluated on the basis of how much they bring to the table at the end of the month. Yet, study programmes are akin to the human body — there is no part that is more important than the other. Each part complements the other. It’s the same with degree programmes.  It’s time we banish the belief that underrates some programmes. Passion must be the driving force. It drives success. What is critical is strategising one’s passion for a job market.