The Herald Tanaka Moyo Midlands State University
THE banning of kombis as a mode of public transport in March this year by the Government in fulfilment of Covid-19 guidelines brought relief to women and young girls, for long victims of sexual harassment by touts. Before the introduction of the Zupco buses, unaccompanied girls and women were abused by the touts/hwindis especially when moving without a male counterpart. Touts would short change or extort young girls resulting in them being manipulated by the touts. The Government’s policy that saw kombis replaced by Zupco buses meant the girl child could put on clothes of their choice and travel safely and freely without fear of abuse from the touts. Some of the Zupco buses, have female conductors, who handle passengers in a professional way thus ensuring that Covid-19 guidelines are being followed. ***** Sheron Mangisi Midlands State University Parents and the public used to be so excited for children at university because they were institutions held in high esteem. Today society no longer holds universities in high esteem, largely because of the wayward conduct of   students which appears to suggest they take being at university as an opportunity to do other things and not a place to focus on education and develop oneself. This is true to some extent because there are some students who actually indulge in irresponsible acts and conduct. However, society needs to consider that there are also some students who are well-behaved and actually are focused on their studies. In this case it can be argued that society is being judgemental when it views university students through one lens. Society is also conveniently forgetting that these students are coming from families – families which ordinarily should invest in the proper upbringing of their children so that whatever they do and wherever they go, their behaviour is not questioned. Families and parents cannot delegate their parenting roles to institutions of education. So it begins with families. ***** Nkosana Khumalo Midlands State University The year 2020 started off normally with the usual celebrations, however, it is a year that has turned out to be a completely new lesson about managing relationships, friends and family. It is a year that has proved that the main challenge in life is survival. With the recent opening of restaurants, clubs and other public places ,the majority of people are so positive, full of joy and hope for a normal world, although social/physical distancing, masks and curfews will be with us as part of the new normal. There are invaluable lessons to be learnt from the mistakes that have been and continue to be made by the developed countries in managing the pandemic. We continue to see relaxation and imposition of the Covid-19 restrictions, suggesting the adoption of trial and error approaches in dealing with the pandemic. The overall message is one of how clueless the developed seems to be when it comes to how best to move on from this unexpected global crisis. With the recent efforts at re-opening schools for examination classes, students should be encouraged to take appropriate and necessary measures in order to tackle this devastating disease that no one seems to have solutions to. ***** Irikidzai Muyambo Midlands State University The craving for a fantasy life and emulating the lives of celebrities seen on social media platforms appears to be instrumental in misleading university students. Not all tertiary students come from families that are well provided for. This background can have a telling effect on children from such families when they go to university or other institutions of higher learning, where they find the pressures of seeking to fit in becoming overwhelming. There is an overwhelming argument for structures that offer psycho-social support for students from such backgrounds so that they stay focused on their mission when they enter university. This would be critical in ensuring students perform well and do not get distracted from their mission. ***** Prince Nyambuya Midlands State University Tatenda Mugove Zunde is one of the most influential Zimbabwean Hip-hop artists who goes by the name “Brownxin”. Tatenda was born in 1993 in Gwanda and grew up in Queensdale then later moved to Chitungwiza where he started his music career. He started working with his uncle Shuga Sheck, and Cocoh Tan. They were the only dancehall masters who understood the genre at that time. Tatenda later worked with Bad Apple records which is also a Dancehall studio.  He moved to Mic Burners under Real Beats and they released hits like “Handisi tsaga” and “Go hard”, which did very well on Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation television and radio. Recently he has been working with Gink studio. As a university student, Zunde prioritises his education as much as he prioritises his music. He believes that in order to make it ,one needs education because it is the foundation of solid success. The young star is also into pop music, making beats and he is thinking about venturing into something different from music because he believes the main purpose in life is to make it, change one’s surrounding and change the world. The humble artist gives credit to everyone who he has worked with and whoever supported him to chase his dream – this is his family. “Growing up, my father worked in the education sector, so he did not want to hear anything out of that context, till he realized that I was doing so well in music. “My mother always supported me from the word go,” explains the young musician. He gives credit for his rise to his director, Leroy V, who is behind his visuals and has done so much for the music industry. As a young star he has no doubt that with time Hip-hop in Zimbabwe will become big as it is a universal genre and also that upcoming generations are more into Hip-hop than other genres. He says he is inspired by the ghetto and sings about the everyday events that occur in the ghetto. “This year I released three singles. These songs got radio plays on Power fm… ‘Mahwambi’ and ‘Ishe’ were exchanging spots on the charts with people across the country voting for the songs.” The young artist says one of his most creative craft in 2020 was “Mahwambi” because he put all his emotions in that song. It is for this reason that most people in deep problems reach out praising him for the song because they believe the song talks to them. The main purpose of his music is to rekindle a new life among youths and give them hope.  