The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
IT’S back to business for some of the country’s leading long-distance runners as they take to the road this morning in the Chivero Rhino Run event. The 21km race is the main event but there are several other activities lined up for the day at Lake Chivero Recreational Park. Some of those who have confirmed participation include, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services Athletics Club athlete, Jonathan Chinyoka, Rudo Mhonderwa while Cephas Pasipamire, who is doubling as an athlete and coach, will be leading the ZRP team. The side include some seasoned runners such as Olivia Chitate, Elijah Mabhunu, and Ethel Sibanda. This is an opportunity for the athletes, who have been training with no competition, to assess their fitness, and progress towards their various targets. In the men’s section, it’s looking promising with Chinyoka, the 2020 Old Mutual Harare marathon and CBZ marathon winner, saying he is going for the top spot. “Of course, we were disrupted for some time since we could not compete but, as races are coming back, some virtual like the Vic Falls marathon, we began preparing and when we heard about this race we were excited as athletes. “It’s an opportunity to check fitness so I am happy. Aiming for a good time may be difficult, considering the long break but I am looking forward to winning. “Looking at my performance, since December and the two races I ran this year before lockdown and the training I have been having, I think it’s achievable,” Chinyoka said. Chitate, who won the CBZ marathon in the women’s section, is not expecting much today except to assess herself. “For me, it’s a race to measure my fitness. I was not expecting this race, we were just working towards next year then we heard about this race. “We have just been training but I can’t say I am fit. “My programme has been towards next year and it’s been going well. The race is important because it’s a good platform to assess myself in a competitive race. ‘’It will help to identify the areas that still need to be worked on so, meeting others in a competition, will go a long way really help,” Chitate said. Participants can also take part in a 10km and 5km run. The event is being organised by the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority and Ecotourism Africa to promote domestic tourism. “Since we are hosting this event, for the first time, we are trying to make people understand that domestic tourism is affordable. “There are options, we have camping, we have lodges, even game events that people don’t know, that people are not aware of. “So, we are trying to conscientise people that domestic tourism is affordable and very possible,” said Ecotourism sports and recreation coordinator Malvin Kanjere. Other activities lined up for the day include horse riding, game drives, tug-of-war and aerobics.