The Herald LONDON – Five games into an English Premier League season full of goals and drama, each of the traditional “big six” have dropped at least five points, and the title race is wide open. Unbeaten Everton and Aston Villa are the surprise pace-setters and, with a gruelling schedule of European games under way, the odds of a shock title winner have tumbled. Three weeks ago, the title looked like Liverpool’s to lose after an impressive start to their title defence. However, a 7-2 thrashing at Villa knocked the champions off course and the loss of Virgil van Dijk, likely for the rest of the season, is a devastating blow. Liverpool, who lack options in central defence, still have the firepower to mount a title challenge but they have already dropped the same number of points as they did in their first 28 league games last season as they cruised to a first league title in 30 years. City and Liverpool have been dominant over the past three seasons but there are big questions over Pep Guardiola’s defence despite a £100 million outlay on defenders in the transfer window. Leicester won 5-2 at the Etihad last month, while goalkeeper Ederson made a string of important saves to salvage a 1-1 draw at Leeds and ensure a 1-0 victory over Arsenal. A short pre-season, coronavirus infections and injuries have also hampered City but they are now the bookmakers’ favourites, with a deep squad and title-winning know-how.  English Premiership Fixtures Today: West Ham United v Manchester City (1:30pm); Fulham v Crystal Palace (4pm); Manchester United v Chelsea (6:30pm); Liverpool v Sheffield United (9pm). Tomorrow: Southampton v Everton (4pm); Wolverhampton Wanderers v Newcastle United (6:30pm); Arsenal v Leicester City (9:15pm). Monday: Brighton & Hove Albion v West Bromwich Albion (7:30pm); Burnley v Tottenham Hotspur (10pm).  Spanish La Liga Fixtures Today: Barcelona v Real Madrid (4pm); Osasuna v Athletic Club (6:30pm); Sevilla v Eibar (6:30pm); Atlético Madrid v Real Betis (9pm). Tomorrow: Real Valladolid v Deportivo Alavés (3pm); Cádiz v Villarreal (5pm); Getafe v Granada (7:30pm); Real Sociedad v Huesca (10pm). Monday: Levante v Celta de Vigo (10pm).  Italian Serie A Fixtures Today: Atalanta v Sampdoria (3pm); Genoa v Internazionale (6pm); Lazio v Bologna (8:45pm). Tomorrow: Cagliari v Crotone (1:30pm); Parma v Spezia (4pm); Benevento v Napoli (4pm); Fiorentina v Udinese (7pm); Juventus v Hellas Verona (9:45pm). Monday: Milan v Roma (9:45pm). — SuperSport.com.