The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE women’s cricket team captain, Mary-Anne Musonda, says she is encouraged, and excited, with the developments in local cricket. Speaking on the sidelines of the Visit Zimbabwe Campaign launch on Tuesday, Musonda said the signs were encouraging for the game. “We haven’t played, I think in like almost five months now, we have slowly started training, so we are hoping to have a lot of games,’’ she said. “We are hoping that other countries are also opening up so that we can tour those countries. “And, we are excited that the Chevrons, our boys, will be going to Pakistan next week on Monday, we will be keenly following them. “We are hoping the ladies will also get to tour, as well, and we can slowly resume playing as well. “Now, there are Covid-19 restrictions that come with the game, so everything is now changing, but we are glad that everything is moving forward. “I just want to say all the best to the guys, you see them working hard in quite difficult circumstances, but we are grateful that they are going out there. “I hope they will represent us well and they will make us proud.’’ The Lady Chevrons captain said she was excited that sportspersons were part of the Visit Zimbabwe Campaign. The campaign seeks to leverage on the sport and tourism sectors to market the country as a premier tourist destination. It is an initiative between Zimbabwe Cricket and the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, through their parent ministries — Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, and Environment, Climate, Tourism and Hospitality Industry. “I think it’s a very good initiative because it gives us a lot of exposure,’’ she said. “We have the honour of representing our country, and also the tourism side of our beautiful country, Zimbabwe. “So, we know that each time we go playing out there, we have the backing of the Ministry as well. “As a player, I feel honoured to have such a privilege of carrying the country, and representing it, everywhere I go.” Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister, Kirsty Coventry, said they were looking at expanding the concept to other sport codes. Coventry believes the move will help sport get the recognition it deserves as an industry, and the contribution it can make, in the various sectors of the economy. “We know that when sports teams visit our country, they stay in hotels, they buy things, they spend money in restaurants and bars and right now sport gets no recognition for that. “So, this is a small step in the right direction to really showcase the power that sport has to be able to carry a very positive message of Zimbabwe to the world on a global platform. “And, the goal will be then to try and take that across other national sports associations as well into the CCIs (Cultural and Creative Industries),” said Coventry.