The Herald ABIGAIL Kawonza, has been named Zimbabwe’s Rugby Africa “Unstoppables” continental #TryAndStopUs campaign ambassador. Kawonza is a Zimbabwe Rugby Union board member, coach of match officials and referee. She is part of a group of women nominated to fast-track the development of women’s rugby in Africa. The social media campaign features 12 inspirational women, and girls, with “unstoppable” qualities. It will run over a period of three months, showcasing the diversity of the continent with ambassadors from Botswana, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Namibia, Senegal, South Africa, Tunisia, Uganda and Zimbabwe. “We want to do something very impactful, and sustainable for all women in rugby on the continent to get players, fans and sponsors interested in the game,’’ said Khaled Babbou, president of Rugby Africa. “Our goal is to uplift the ‘Unstoppables’ and the women in rugby beyond this campaign. “We have a long-term vision and commitment. “Africa is a big rugby market, as the latest Nielsen report, conducted by World Rugby, shows and is one of the fastest growing markets in the world. “It is such an untapped market in terms of athletic potential, growth opportunities and market penetration — especially for the women. “As, the individual stories of the campaign show, there are really strong women coming out of Africa.” Paula Lanco, Rugby Africa executive member and chairperson of the Women’s Rugby Advisory Committee, is excited to launch the Try And Stop Us campaign. “It has been great to see the success of the World Rugby campaign started globally in 2017, and to now feature the phase two our African ‘Unstoppables.’ “From 2012 until 2018 there has been an immense growth in women’s rugby in Africa — from 50 000 to over 260 000 registered players – and we have an ambitious strategy to grow women’s rugby by an additional 30 per cent by 2025. “It is especially critical in these challenging times to keep the players engaged. “It’s now time to tell our own stories, in our own way, tapping into the diversity of our continent. “A big thank you to all the inspiring African women in rugby who entered the #TryAndStopUs campaign. You are truly unstoppable!” Nominations Abigail Kawonza — Board Member, Coach of Match Officials, Referee, Zimbabwe; Babalwa Latsha — International Player, Springbok 15s Captain, South Africa; Christel Janet Kotze — Coach and TV producer, Namibia; Donatienne Rasoampamonjy — Coach, Coach Trainer, Club founder, Madagascar; Fatma El-Kindiy — Communication and project manager, Botswana; Ella Paule Guei — Referee, Côte d’Ivoire; Fatou Camara Sene — Administrator and communication manager, Senegal; Rafatu Inusah — Board member and educator, Ghana; Peris Mukoko — Board member, Educator, Match official, Kenya; Samiya Ayikoru — International Player, Uganda; Sanaa Barakat — Player, Egypt; Wejdane Limame —Citing commissioner, Club President, Tunisia. — RugbyAfrique.com/Sports Reporter.