The Herald Business Reporter Telecoms giant Econet and Royal Bafokeng Holdings (RBH), have announced a partnership to develop up to 175MW of solar energy assets in selected African countries. The latter will invest up to US$20 million through Distributed Power Africa. DPA is Econet’s subsidiary focused on developing and operating renewable energy assets across Africa. The firm works with commercial and industrial businesses to adopt hybrid clean energy solutions using lithium battery technology to improve energy security, reduce costs and improve their carbon footprint.. RBH is a long-term African community investment holding company, with a legacy of partnering successfully with leading organisations to achieve real broad-based transformation. The investment will provide funding to boost DPA commercial and industrial solar projects in South Africa, Kenya, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Zambia. DPA Africa chief executive Norman Moyo, said the company has sought ways to ease the burden of deploying solar by ensuring its customers engage in a capex free model where they sign power lease agreements of up to 15 years. “We are excited to partner with a like-minded African investor, RBH, to unlock access to sustainable energy for commercial and industrial customers in Africa. “Access to energy is a key driver of Econet’s vision of a digitally connected future that leaves no African behind,” he said. For RBH, this project is another step in its journey towards portfolio diversification and provides a long-term investment opportunity in making affordable, efficient energy widely accessible to businesses so that they can, in turn, empower communities. Said RBH chief executive Albertina Kekana: “We are particularly pleased about this opportunity as it enhances energy as a key enabler for the growth of sustainable data centres — now a major investment focus in our portfolio — as the demand for connectivity has been greatly increased by the pandemic. “We have partnered with a very dynamic business with a strong record of execution on the African continent who are backed by a very successful Group, Econet.” RBH is an African community investment holding company with a unique responsibility of preserving and growing the financial capital of the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN). It is a long-term investor with a legacy of acquiring significant stakes in high growth, defensive sectors and high-quality companies with established track-records The partnership comes at an opportune time when the South African Government is encouraging investment in renewable energy and will accelerate the much-needed 6.8GW energy capacity, as outlined in the Integrated Resource Plan of 2019.