The Herald Sports Reporter WITH Tennis Zimbabwe keen to, at least, keep their members active, they have started the proposed club championships. The tournaments feature junior players, social and semi-professional players. The national association are pushing to have some form of competition, starting with small events, in preparation for international tournaments. The championships involve all age-groups from Under-10 to Under-18, for juniors, then semi-professionals and social players,. There will be less than 100 participants for each gathering. TZ manager, Cliff Nhokwara, said they have so far staged one event in Harare between Harare Sports Club and Old Hararians. They are likely to make adjustments to create more matches for young players. “We are trying to push for Old Hararians and Harare Sports Club reverse fixture around November 7. “We started with Under-10s, Under-12s, Under-14s, Under-16s, Under-18s, followed by semi-pros, then social players, both men and women. “We are involving all age-groups from Under-10s. Generally, it gives competition to the youngsters. “The adjustment, we can do is for juniors, they need more matches to include the doubles. But, then, it becomes a fully-fledged tournament, which we have not been given the go ahead. These are smaller events, we are working with less than 100 people, so it’s more like a training session,” said Nhokwara. Other provinces which have joined in are Midlands and Masvingo. The national association are optimistic of hosting, at least, three international junior events between November and December, in Bulawayo and Harare. They have got confirmation from the International Tennis Federation and are now seeking approval from local authorities to host the tournaments. The first one is scheduled to take place in Bulawayo and the other two are expected in Harare. The club championships also create the platform for the 18-and-Under players to get ready, for the international tournaments, if they get the green light from the local authorities. Nhokwara said they have blended in top playing coaches, and juniors, so that the upcoming players aspiring to break into the professional circuit, are prepared for the challenge. “Semi-pros singles (matches), we are trying to blend in top playing coaches against Under-16s and Under-18s. “The idea is to try and blend junior tennis and senior tennis. “For example, if a junior player should break into the ATP, they should be playing senior players. “That preparations should be done now.”