The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
NGEZI Platinum Stars are holding out for an improved offer from South African Premiership side Chippa United who have been impressed by midfielder Gerald “General’’ Takwara. The midfielder joined the Mhondoro side in June 2019, on a two-year contract, and the deal is set to run out in the next eight months. The burly former Zimbabwe youth international took advantage of the lull in football activities in the country to sneak to South Africa where he agreed personal terms with Chippa United. But, Ngezi Platinum are demanding that Chippa come to the table as they cannot get the player for free. Takwara is key to coach Rodwell Dhlakama’s plans. Club secretary-general, Cloete Munjoma, said Takwara is in South Africa awaiting his clearance to join Chippa. “For starters, we did not clear Gerald (Takwara) to go to South Africa. He is our player and we don’t even know how he ended up in South Africa,’’ said Munjoma. “It is actually confusing how he ended up in South Africa. “Well, Chippa United have been in touch with us whereupon they are asking us to clear the player to join them. “There is definitely no way we can stand in the player’s way but, look, Gerald (Takwara) remains our player and we have been honouring our contractual obligations, paying him his dues, just like all of our employees. “But, we cannot let him go for free. He is our investment and we have since told Chippa United to come up with a reasonable offer but they haven’t come back to us as yet. “We bought the player last year. He is still ours and there is no way he can join another team for free. That doesn’t make any business sense.’’ Takwara joined Ngezi Platinum in June last year. Ngezi Platinum are still negotiating with goalkeeper, Nelson Chadya, to try and extend his stay at the club. His current contract expires at the end of this year. Chadya has attracted interest across the country. A reunion with his former boss, Tonderai Ndiraya, at Dynamos has been mooted. Champions FC Platinum are also said to be interested and waiting to pounce if he decides to leave. Speaking to The Herald, Chadya confirmed there was interest in his services from other clubs chose to keep his cards close to his chest. “I am taking my time to decide. I am considering a lot of factors but, in a few weeks’ time, I will be in a position to tell where I will be going,” said Chadya. Dhlakama has also brought in two other good goalkeepers at Ngezi — Marion Chang and Issah Ali. The coach was the one who scouted Chadya when he was 15, playing in the Harare Christian League, before recommending him to former Gunners director Cuthbert Chitima.