The Herald LONDON. — Bruno Fernandes atoned for a missed penalty as Manchester United blitzed Newcastle with late goals on Saturday while VAR denied Liverpool a cathartic victory against Everton on another day of breathless drama in the English Premier League football. Elsewhere, Chelsea conceded late to draw 3-3 at home to Southampton while Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola got the better of former assistant Mikel Arteta in a 1-0 win over Arsenal. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men went into their match at St James’s Park desperate to restore pride after a 6-1 hammering by Spurs before the international break but were immediately in trouble when Luke Shaw turned the ball into his own net. United were back on level terms midway through the first half when captain Harry Maguire met Juan Mata’s corner with an unstoppable header, just days after the misery of a red card for England against Denmark. The visitors were handed a golden chance to take the lead from the spot after VAR awarded them a penalty for Jamal Lewis’s challenge on Marcus Rashford but Karl Darlow dived to his right to save Fernandes’s 58th-minute spot-kick. However, the Portuguese made amends for his miss with a superb 86th-minute strike and there was still time for goals from Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Rashford, who made it 4-1. “Great result and great character to come back, led by a very inspirational captain,” Solskjaer told Sky Sports. “Harry scored and leads by example,” he added. “He showed good character, I am happy for him. He had a couple of difficult weeks since he last played for us. “The season started for us today. We have come up to the speed of the game and that showed today.” Jurgen Klopp’s champions were desperate to re-establish their authority after their 7-2 mauling against Aston Villa but were forced to settle for a 2-2 draw after Jordan Henderson’s late strike was chalked off for offside. Everton, who have not beaten Liverpool since 2010, remain three points clear of their Merseyside rivals at the top of the table after a number of controversial calls went their way at Goodison Park. — AFP.