The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HEAPS of human waste greet visitors at any of the entrances on the Mbare end of Rufaro. Oblivious of the health hazard, potato vendors go about their business, jostling for potential customers from their trucks. The razor-wire mounted on top of the perimeter wall hangs loosely and part of it has been vandalised. It’s not the only part of this grand football facility which is crying out for urgent attention. The open space, behind the Western Grand Stand, which has been earmarked for the construction of new changing rooms, has been turned into a haven for gambling gangs. A part of it is also being used for money-games, which often degenerate into fist fights. The stadium was condemned by the ZIFA First Instance Board as unfit to host top-flight matches early this year. An uneven turf, poor drainage and ablution facilities and changing rooms, were all flagged by the Piraishe Mabhena-chaired board. Harare City Council swiftly reacted by deploying their artisans to try and address those issues before the scheduled start of the domestic football season in March. The municipality installed two boreholes, which are being used to clean ablution facilities, and water the turf. But, most of the work which the council workers had done at the venue, was reversed as the local authority suspended work as the coronavirus pandemic worsened between June and August. The artisans are back at work. But, they are mostly confined to working inside the stadium. No work has started outside the facility, with council spokesperson, Michael Chideme, saying the menacing vendors, operating at the stadium, are being dealt with. “Yes, we are aware of the damage being inflicted by the potato vendors operating by the side of Rufaro Stadium,’’ said Chideme. “We have since launched an operation to remove them. “Our council enforcement personnel are on the ground dealing with that issue. “Our message is simple. “They have some designated points where they are supposed to operate from, but they are choosing to operate from the stadium, in the process soiling its environs. “But, by the end of this week, we know we would have covered enough ground in terms of removing them. “We are aware of the mess they have created adjacent to the stadium. We are dealing with that.” The construction of two-storey new dressing rooms at the site, which has been taking over by vendors and gamblers, was supposed to start two months ago. But, the work was affected by the pandemic. Building materials, including cement and sand, were donated by a former Harare City Councillor, Beadle Musa Gwasira, who is a renowned football administrator. “As you may be aware, work was disturbed by the coronavirus pandemic and Council had to trim workers at all stations, leaving few numbers, to minimise the spread of the epidemic. “But, very soon, the construction of those changing rooms will be commencing. Virtually, everything is in place and we will be starting work in the coming few weeks. “The stadium will be upgraded into a classy facility. It’s only that the Covid-19 pandemic disturbed and slowed down our progress.”