The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM forward, Silas Songani, has passed his trials at Sudanese giants Al Hilal pending an agreement being reached with the player’s handlers. The 31-year-old forward has been on a two-week assessment at the club. He arrived in Sudan in the company of his former FC Platinum teammate, Last Jesi, who has since been given a contract. And, Songani, who returned home from a six-year stint in Europe to join the Zvishavane club, is now waiting for a deal to be agreed between the club and his agents. “Basically, Silas (Songani) has passed his trials at Al Hilal in Sudan,’’ sources, with the team representing him, told The Herald. “He has proven that he can be a very good addition to the team and I am very happy for that. “The only thing that is delaying the deal now is that we are yet to reach an agreement regarding the figures. “We are in touch with Al Hilal and, as things stand, we are well on the way. I am very happy that the team has expressed interest in taking the player on board. “We are looking at their offer and we are negotiating in good faith with the club. It is our hope that, at the end of the day, the player will be happy.” The sources said the deal was supposed to have been finalised on Friday last week. “The deal was supposed to be sealed last week on Friday but there are loose ends which are still being tied up to now. We are confident that, at the end of this week or even before, everything would have been sorted out. “Silas (Songani) is a good player and deserves good deals. When he returned from Europe to join FC Platinum this year, he made it clear to the media that he will be looking for new challenges. “He said he would be looking at joining other clubs in South Africa or anywhere across the continent as well as in the Middle East. “And, before the season has even started, he is on the verge of joining one of the best African teams. “We will do our best for him to sign a good deal.” Songani is on a two-year contract with FC Platinum. He played just a single competitive match for the Zvishavane side, a Castle Super Cup final against Highlanders, with his brace handing the league champions the trophy in March. While Songani appears to be on the move, his club back home are now facing a crisis ahead of the start of the Champions League. “We are still waiting for the clearance,’’ said FC Platinum spokesperson, Chido Chizondo. “We applied through ZIFA and we know the authorities have a lot to consider before they can grant us permission to begin group training. “We will begin our CAF Champions League campaign next month and we hope to do well.’’