The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN legendary golfer, Nick Price, has once again honoured after he was awarded honorary membership of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews this week. Price, together with Open champions Catriona Matthew, Padraig Harrington and Ernie Els, have been made honorary members of The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews. Price, like South African legendary golfer Els, is a former world number one. He was in a class of his own in 1994, winning six titles, including the Open at Turnberry, and his second PGA Championship title. The Zimbabwean joined two-time Open champions, Harrington and Els, to accept the invitations together with 2009 Women’s Open champion Matthew. Matthew, Els, Harrington and Price have 11 major championships among them and are among the most successful, and influential, professional golfers of the modern era. They are also great ambassadors for the sport. Price told www.golf.now that playing in The Open was something which he always looked forward to. “Playing in The Open, each year, was a week I always looked forward to and, particularly, a week at St Andrews,” said Price. “Winning The Open was a highlight of my career and I will always savour the year that I held the Claret Jug. “I am delighted and extremely grateful to accept this invitation to become an Honorary Member of The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews. “I feel very fortunate to be joining so many other Honorary Members who I have respected and admired throughout my career.’’ One of golf’s most popular figures, Price, is a three-time Major champion and former world number one. The Zimbabwean won The Open at Turnberry in ‘94 before going on to claim his second PGA Championship that year to add to his victory two years earlier. He achieved 48 professional wins, around the world, and spent more than 40 weeks at number one in the world. Price represented the International team in the Presidents Cup on five occasions and went on to captain the team for three matches. He is a three-time winner of the Zimbabwe Open with his victories coming in 1995, 1997 and 1998.