The Herald Sports Reporter
THE Rainbow Amateur Netball League (RANL) are engaging their sponsors and stakeholders to discuss the huge costs of playing the game under a bio-bubble environment. There was general consensus that action has to shelved this year after they conducted a cost-benefit analysis which showed it was better to forego the season. RANL secretary-general, Moses Gukurume, said although their sponsors, Glow Petroleum, will have the final say, the situation on the ground was not looking good. “As soon as we get a response from the sponsor we will be able to conclusively say what will happen to this season,’’ he said. “When we were working on a draft request, for the resumption of our game, we made enquiries to understand some of the requirements that sport codes, which are in the high risk category like us, were asked to put in place. “Our understanding was that soccer, and all teams in the high risk category, had guidelines to play in the bio-bubble concept.’’ Gukurume said the costs were too high. “We then discovered that we don’t have the courts that are enclosed, to allow for proper screening, and the medical requirements that come with the screening. “So, as an executive, we tried to find out if our teams can afford to fund the costs, we also tabled this information to the sponsors to hear their input. “We also left room for discussions to see if it is still feasible to play any games under these conditions. “Even before we consulted the teams, the general feeling, if one is to make a cost benefit analysis, is that it would draw a lot of resources from our teams than what they would reap at the end of the season.’’ RANL chairperson, Melody Garikai, told The Herald, two weeks ago, they were monitoring the situation. “We are periodically monitoring the developments and we are making consultations on the position we will take,’’ she said. “We need the input of all our stakeholders. The national executive is consulting, the regional executives also, there’s the sponsor’s input, so it’s a big group. “Right now, we are keeping our ears on the ground, monitoring what’s happening. “The developments in football, what does this mean to us, we want to stand guided by what Government is saying.’’