The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporte
ZIMBABWE-born forward, Neil Nzvenga, who plies his trade in the Chinese third-tier league for Jumei Guomei has attracted interests from Ukraine, Russia and Turkey. But, the 24-year-old says he will only consider offers after he completes his studies in the Asian country. The Zimbabwean is one of the top strikers in the league vying for the Golden Boot award in a mini-tournament the clubs are playing. Nzvenga has found the back of the net seven times while weighing in with five assists, in eight starts, in the mini-tournament. Only Wang Si and Pang Kaitan, who play for Liuzhou Melting and Zhou Junling, have scored a goal more than the Zimbabwean. Nzvenga who had attachments at the Sporting Academy, and Kaizer Chiefs juniors, said he will consider joining top European clubs when he completes his studies next year. “I have been contacted by several top teams in Europe. Of late, my videos have gone viral and I am receiving lots of inquiries from clubs around the world,’’ he said. ‘’But, for now, I am fully committed to my current team, which has given me the platform to showcase my talent. “I grew up playing football for fun but, after I was drafted into the Kaizer Chiefs junior team, I realised I could grow to become a top footballer. ‘’But, then, I also had to pursue my academics which I am about to finish here in China. “It was during my time at school when I was identified by my current team. I have not looked back since joining this club. “I am enjoying my football and I am scoring for fun. “I am happy that I am getting all those inquiries. I will certainly consider the offers which have come my way.” The big centre-forward, who can also play as a winger or second striker, said he dreams of representing his country one day. “There is no better feeling for a footballer than being called to represent your national team,’’ he said. “I am currently on top of my game but there are certain aspects of the game that a player always needs to improve. “I am doing that every day and I am improving in every match.” Nzvenga has since enlisted the services of Cover All Sports Consultancy, an athlete management organisation, owned by Zivanai Muwashu. “Neil (Nzvenga) is still to complete his studies. Once he is done, we will be in a position to map a way forward,’’ said Muwashu. ‘’We have received so many inquiries and we need to weigh the options available. “I am glad that he chose us, a company based here in Zimbabwe, to manage his affairs. “He is a good striker and, with his build, he can torment any defender in the world.’’