The Herald SINGAPORE. — Capping an historic announcement, the Global Esports Federation have welcomed Japan-based publishers — Capcom Co Ltd, Konami Digital Entertainment Co Ltd. and Sega Group Corporation — as new members. They are also trailblazers of the recently announced Publishers and Developers Advisory Council. “Nine months ago, the Global Esports Federation was established with a collective ambition to convene the world’s esports community. “Our mission is to bring together the diverse stakeholders on one, global inclusive platform,” said Chris Chan, the GEF president. “As we have grown, we have continued to listen and adapt. We acknowledge the fundamental importance of the world’s publishers and developers and welcome Capcom, Konami and Sega as members of the GEF and the PDAC. “We look forward to continuing the GEF’s initiatives for the development of esports and setting the path for an even brighter future together.” The publishers join the GEF to help convene, and grow, the global esports community and to celebrate esports around the globe. The PDAC work collectively with the GEF Board, facilitating community interactions that will enable information sharing, learning opportunities and various strategic initiatives. “Esports has been experiencing explosive growths in recent years, yet the ecosystem is still fairly fragmented,’’ said Haruhiro Tsujimoto, president and representative director, Capcom Co Ltd. “Capcom is excited to join the Global Esports Federation to convene esports stakeholders and jointly develop a sustainable pathway for future development of esports globally, bringing even more people together through a collective vision onto one inclusive platform.” Hideki Hayakawa, president and representative director of Konami Digital Entertainment Co Ltd, said the world was witnessing the tremendous growth of esports on a global scale. “Konami is honoured to join the Global Esports Federation, and together, we work towards accelerating the understanding and acceptance of the benefits, possibilities, and enjoyment that esports brings to billions of people around the world,’’ he said. “Esports is exciting, infinitely promising and rapidly growing — the potential for growth is immense. Hideki Okamura, chairman of the Sega Group Corporation, said they shared the same vision with GEF. “Sega shares the same collective vision with the Global Esports Federation, to harness the benefits of technology for good, and to explore new opportunities, particularly, where sport meets esports, elevating the future of esports, bringing the global community together through a #worldconnected.” — Global Esports Federation