The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263
Phew! Saturday is that day when most people get to do what they had been wishing to do mid-week but failing to get time off work. In fact like they say “The only reason why we ask other people how their weekend was is so we can tell them about our own weekend.” We are still in summer and since we touched much on the dressing part, I am sure no one is going to be arrested in the street. One local fashion stylist, Dean James Sakuhuni always describes fashion as an art. “Dressing is like putting mud in clear water and the mud goes below and the clear water on top. That is the same with colours, it should always be dark colours below and bright colours pop on top,” he said. No further questions, the jury has spoken. I got an email with most women asking about the beauty aspect in summer yet alone in the rain and how to treat your skin. Surely, as masks has become an inseparable part of our life, most question are what will happen to the beauty products, the lipstick and foundation. Is this the end of the lipstick era? Surprisingly some dermatologists spend summers underneath the same sun as the rest of us, but somehow their skin manages to stay clear and glowing. For those in the dark, a dermatologist is a doctor who specialises in conditions involving the skin, hair, and nails. He or she can identify and treat more than 3 000 conditions. Well, luckily this week, I caught up with United States based skin care specialist Lucia Sajeni (pictured) who has worked with both local and international celebrities. Sajeni who is currently in the country,  studied beauty therapy and healthcare and had become obsessed with skincare said she prefers to be called a skin care specialist or expert not a dermatologist. “The secret is just glow. I am a skin care educator and my focus is on skincare. I have worked with some of Hollywood celebrities but I can’t share their names because I signed a non-disclosure agreement. I plan on venturing out to schools, businesses and training youths and adults on skincare. I want to make people in Zimbabweans more aware on the benefits of taking better care of your skin,” she said. She added that people should understand their skin and how it works yet alone should feel confident. “It is not about purchasing expensive products but understanding and getting to know about your skin. Most of the ingredients can be found in your kitchen and garden like maize meal and honey which equate to an exfoliator. The egg-white equals a treatment mask. Potato peels can treat dark spots. So at the end of the day, knowing your skin and what natural ingredients works well with your skin will really benefit you,” she shares her tips. Sajeni said the challenge in the beauty industry is most people centre beauty on makeup and hair forgetting that at the end of the day when all that makeup is removed and when you look into the mirror it is just you and your skin. “I have over 10 years of experience and have worked on all races and all skin types. I want to share my knowledge. The skin is a beautiful organ and once you get a glimpse of how it performs you can know how to look after your skin,” she explained. You should know antioxidants to use Do not be shy to invest in a good antioxidant serum during the summer. Not only does an antioxidant serum hydrate your skin, but it can also protect your skin from ecological damage. You can stock up on citrus fruits, green and leafy vegetables, green tea, nuts, and whole grains to have younger looking skin. You should cut down on makeup You can wear minimal facial makeup to allow the skin to breathe better. Humidity and heat suppress the skin’s ability to breathe and stress it out. For now avoid anything heavy on the face. You can try using a tinted moisturiser, tinted lip balm, and organic kajal in summer to give your skin some rest. You should keep your skin hydrated Remember that summer is the time when your skin requires moisture as well as hydration. For those who can afford, invest in a good hydrating mask which you use a couple of times a week. Wash your face first and apply the mask as directed at night to repair, rehydrate, and soothe your skin. Always drink water it is good for your skin. Use home remedies As they say exfoliation is the key to brighter and smoother skin. It removed dulling skin debris and piled up dead cells. You can exfoliate with a natural home remedy, like coffee grounds mixed with oil and river salt. Remember that exfoliation is required for your entire body and not just your face. Be gentle while exfoliating. Do not over-exfoliate because your skin will get bruised and you may end up getting rashes. People with sensitive skin should opt for mild exfoliators that are tender on the skin. 