The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter WARRIORS coach, Zdravko Logarusic, is expected to name his squad today for the back-to-back AFCON qualifiers against Algeria’s Desert Foxes next month. It has emerged that Queens Park Rangers forward, Macauley Bonne, has ruled himself out of the squad to play in next month’s double header. It still remains to be seen if some of the regular stars, like Tino Kadewere, will be allowed to leave their Europe bases after France announced a new nationwide lockdown. Europe is struggling to contain a new wave of the coronavirus pandemic and more countries are expected to introduce tough measures. These restrictions could make it difficult for those who live, and work in those countries, to leave, especially for the international football assignments. Wellington Mpandare, the general manager of national teams, yesterday said they had completed the process to secure the release of players from their clubs. “We dispatched the release letters to all the clubs three weeks ago and we have completed that process,’’ he said. “We have managed to secure all the players wanted by the technical team. “The squad announcement should be on tomorrow (today).’’ ZIFA want to have the best possible preparations for the team, in the build up to the back-to-back matches against the African champions, which could define the Warriors’ campaign. The Warriors are second in their group, on four points, with the Algerians topping the group, having secured six points, in their opening two matches, against Zambia and Botswana. Loga, who presided over the friendly against Malawi, is desperate to deliver. The Croat is believed to have included a number of active players who are plying their trade outside the country. ZIFA have been battling to have the local league return so that, at least, the local troops will have some game time in preparation for the international matches. There was an uproar when the coach was forced to field some unfit players after they had failed to secure the services of all the foreign-based players. However, there has been a ray of hope with the foreign arsenal, who are besides getting game time, are also scoring. Zimbabwe received a big boost when CAF granted the Warriors temporary permission to play their home tie at the National Sports Stadium. ZIFA are close to finalising a deal to charter a plane to take the Warriors to Algeria. The first match is set for November 9 and the second match is scheduled for Harare on November 16. “We had a series of meetings today (yesterday), we are still finalising on the charter, but I am confident that we will get the service. “All the Europe-based players will have to report here first and                                        we depart as one group,” said Mpandare.