The Herald LONDON. — Thirteen goals, not for them, but for the opposition. Liverpool and Manchester United, England’s greatest football clubs, suffered humiliating defeats on a crazy Sunday for the English Premiership. The Reds were hammered 2-7 at Aston Villa and the Red Devils slumped to a 1-6 defeat at the hands of Tottenham Hotspur at Old Trafford. It is the first time Liverpool have conceded seven goals since 1963 and is only their fourth Premier League defeat since 3 January 2019. Villa, who escaped relegation on the final day of last season, overtake them in the table with their best start since 1962. Aston Villa have won their opening three league games to a season for the first time since the 1962-63 campaign. This was the first time Liverpool have conceded seven goals in a match in all competitions since April 1963 in a 7-2 league defeat at Tottenham, while it was the second time Aston Villa have netted seven times in a single Premier League game, after a 7-1 win over Wimbledon in February 1995. Liverpool are the first reigning English top-flight champions to ship seven goals in a league match since Arsenal against Sunderland in September 1953. Aston Villa have won four consecutive home Premier League matches for the first time since October 2007. Liverpool’s 11 goals conceded is their most after four games of a league season since 1937-38 (also 11). Since the start of last season, Aston Villa’s Ollie Watkins has scored more league goals than any other player in England’s top four tiers (29, including play-offs). Watkins was the 10th player to score a Premier League hat-trick against Liverpool, and the first since Dimitar Berbatov in September 2010. Jack Grealish is only the second Aston Villa player to assist three goals in a single Premier League game, after James Milner v Burnley in February 2010. Mohamed Salah has now scored against 25 of the 26 sides he has appeared against in the Premier League for Liverpool (96%) — the best ratio of any player in the competition for the club. The United defeat, too, was a result that stunned the world. “It’s a scoreline that will resonate throughout England, Europe, the world,’’ said Sky Sports commentator, Peter Drury. “Manchester United, the great Manchester United 1, Tottenham Hotspur 1, and (Harry) Kane has two of them. “The Theatre of Dreams is reduced to rubble, this is for real, 1-6, it’s no computer game, it’s no fantasy, it’s no nightmare, it is for real, Manchester United 1, Tottenham Hotspur 6.’’ Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham side  equalled the biggest ever margin of victory (6-1) for a manager vs a former club in the Premier League and the biggest since Brendan Rodgers’ Liverpool beat Swansea 5-0 in February 2013. Manchester United have conceded six goals in a single Premier League game for only the third time — with each coming in October (1996 v Southampton, 2011 v Man City, today v Spurs). Manchester United are the seventh side in Premier League history to concede a penalty in 3+ successive home games and the first since Arsenal in December 2016. Mourinho is the first manager to face a side he’s formerly managed in the Premiership, away from home, and score five goals since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer vs Cardiff in Dec 2018 (5-1). Tottenham are the first visiting side to score four first half goals in a league game away at Manchester United since Spurs themselves also did so in November 1957 in a 4-3 win. Only West Brom have conceded more goals in the Premier League than Manchester United. It’s nearly over now though. Martial’s expulsion, for that tame slap on Lamela, within 28 minutes, was the earliest any Manchester United player has been sent off in the Premier League at Old Trafford, with this their 16th such dismissal in the competition. — OptaJoe/Mailonline/BBC Sport. 