The Herald Bulawayo Bureau
ZIMPAPERS will next month hold its annual cancer Power Walk virtually due to the Covid-19 restrictions which limit the number of people attending public events. Zimpapers have been holding the cancer walk in Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Kariba to raise awareness and funding to support Island Hospice palliative care programmes. The event, scheduled for November 7, is running under the theme “I Am and I Will” and the hashtag is #ZimpapersCancerPowerWalk. Zimpapers Group public relations and corporate affairs manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi urged members of the public and corporates to support the group’s fight to raise funds for cancer patients. “We are very grateful to the Chinese Embassy, Plascon, Meditite Healthcare and Allan Wack and Shepherd for coming on board. I would also like to thank the many Zimbabweans both at home and abroad who are donating to this cause on a daily basis. Whenever we come together; we make a difference. We achieve so much more than when we do things individually. Cancer affects all of us and I would like to call on other corporates and individuals to partner us in this cause for we will make a greater impact that way,” she said. Ms Tonhodzayi said all proceeds from the annual Cancer Power Walk will go to Island Hospice and Healthcare. With this year’s event being virtual, she said people from any part of the world should take time to participate. “You can walk or run from anywhere this time around as long as it is between 6am and 6pm. Let’s all come together in our millions. Just grab something pink in your wardrobe and get out there with your partner, friends and neighbours. Let’s walk and run as neighbours on this day. Let’s come together virtually with our family and friends in Europe, America, China, South Africa and everywhere else and do this. Technology allows it so let’s go even bigger and colour the world pink. By doing so, we will be showing solidarity with those affected by cancer who we know face a tough time every day with treatment being largely inaccessible. Let us celebrate the cancer survivors while also honouring those who have died from cancer,” she said Cancer is one of the country’s leading killer diseases and is very expensive to treat. Apart from the advocacy aspect of raising awareness, the event is also aimed at encouraging people to embrace exercise as a way of life, with the walk being fused with runs as well as a Zumba class which will be hosted by Zororo Nhira, popularly known as Zorro from 8am. Participants will be encouraged to take pictures and videos of their walk/run and Zumba sessions and upload them on the group’s online platforms, with lucky participants winning some exciting prizes. Ms Tonhodzayi encouraged people to like the Zimpapers Facebook page and join the Zimpapers Cancer Power Walk Event online while also following the group on Twitter. This year, the group has scrapped registration fees for participants, pushing instead for donations and sponsorship. Registration is already underway. Individuals and corporates who wish to donate in cash or in kind can contact Pauline Matanda on 0715679405/0772977931, email pauline.matanda@zimpapers.co.zw. For monetary deposits well-wishers can use FBC Bank account number 3132517010192 or EcoCash merchant code 019201.