The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
FC PLATINUM forward, Stanley Ngala, says he is prepared for the new role he could be handed at the Zvishavane club as they up their preparations for the CAF Champions League campaign next month. Ngala, who was one of the four home-based players dropped from the Warriors’ squad moments before departure to an international friendly tie in Malawi last Sunday, could be given a new role as the chief striker of the club. And, the player, who is on loan at the Zvishavane miners from Manica Diamonds, believes he has nothing to fear given the unity at the club. FC Platinum have resumed training, after they got a waiver from Government to start preparing as a team, for their continental campaign. “Now we are back at training finally and I can say the guys had really missed football, everyone is ready to go and the work being put in at the ground is very impressive,” he said. “Everyone is working very hard, from the technical staff to the players, everyone is really showing hunger and the determination to get going. As a team, we are preparing very well for the upcoming CAF games with only one thing on our minds, that is to advance to the next round. “So, if we continue putting the work at the training ground, our chances of advancing to the next round are very high and, definitely, we will conquer. “If we work as a team, and remain united, nothing can stand in our way.” Ngala has since forgotten the Warriors episode and believes it has actually strengthened him to be a better player. “To be honest, I was shocked and disappointed to be axed from the national team, just a few hours before the departure to Malawi. But, I told myself that I should look up, keep my head high and continue moving forward because there is definitely more to come. “Just the national team call-up, on its own, was — and remains — a blessing and it came at the right time when we were also just starting our preparations for the CAF Champions League. “So, it definitely boosted my confidence, ahead of the games, which are scheduled for next month,” said Ngala. “In Zimbabwe, we have been inactive for a very long time, due to the Covid-19 pandemicso, the call-up came at a time when I wasn’t active but we had some training programmes that we were being given by the coach (Hendrikus Pieter De Jongh) to follow. “But, the level of match fitness wasn’t up there to compete in a match of that level but, given the chance, I was going to give it my all on the pitch. “Now, all my hopes are left with the CHAN tournament and, this time around, I pray so that I make it. “I want to thank the Warriors’ technical team for recognising me, and giving me that call-up. It means a lot in my career.”