The Herald THERE is a sense Khama Billiat is now feeling part of the Kaizer Chiefs family again, after a difficult period last season, in which his form took dipped badly. Some reports had even linked him with a move away from the Amakhosi. The Zimbabwe international struggled, with little support coming from his German coach, Ernst Middendorp, who appeared intent on frustrating him. But, since the German was fired after Chiefs collapsed in the championship race and were beaten by Mamelodi Sundowns on the final day of the season, Billiat appears to have rekindled his romance with the Soweto giants. He provided the two assists for the goals which helped Chiefs edge Maritzburg United 2-1 in the MTN8 quarter-finals. Chiefs have been celebrating the 76th anniversary of club chairman, Kaizer Motaung’s birthday. “Our chairman, our Hero and most of all our FATHER. Wish you a blessed birthday. May God bless you always,’’ Billiat tweeted. New coach, Hunt, says it’s one of his priorities, to get Billiat firing again. “I have huge expectations (for Khama), I know him from when he came from Zimbabwe to Ajax, he’s older now but he should be more experienced and wiser,” Hunt told the South African media. “I think the most important thing we’ve got to do as a staff is to start playing to his strengths a little bit more where you can get the best out of him. That’s all I’m going to do, whatever he needs, the support, extra work if he’s willing. “I think he is willing and has huge potential still. We have to get him into the right areas of the field. I don’t want to know what’s gone on here before, that’s got nothing to do with me. “I have to just see what’s in front of me and hopefully we can get him into double figures, he’s that type of goalscorer in the league. That’s the first aim. If he does his part, we can do our part and hopefully we can be successful.” Billiat bagged two assists on Hunt’s debut in their MTN8 win over Maritzburg United and will be looking to impress against his former club Mamelodi Sundowns when they open the league campaign on Saturday at FNB Stadium. “We were poor and a bit all over the show in the first half. Also, our back four was stretched,” says Hunt after reviewing the win over Maritzburg. “We changed a few things in the second half and we played better after that. It was not an easy game to come from behind, but the most important thing is to go through to the second round. “I think Ramahlwe Mphahlele will play centre back most of the time. “At his age, I don’t see him going up and down as much on the flanks as he used to. We also did not have much in centre with Mulomowandau Mathoho injured. “We had Siyabonga Ngezana, who came in the second half. I had a chat with “Rama” and worked with him throughout the week. If nothing happens that will be more of a long-term plan. “I thought in the midfield we were not picking up the second ball. We were not getting close to them, and the youngster Njabulo Blom, I think he is one for the future. I only watched him for a week. “He can cover distances and he has a great engine. In a few second of coming on, he played that long pass to Bernard Parker who should have scored.’’ And, again, he talked about Billiat’s influence. “We brought on Leonardo Castro, who only trained for a week after his injury. I did not think he would last long, and he played well with Khama Billiat,’’ said Hunt. “He gave us something. “It is going to take a little bit of time. I don’t like to talk too much, I want to get on the training ground and prepare for the next match. We will work more on the training ground to get some muscle memory. “There are certain things I saw that we must do better. The most important is the mentality and the game intelligence, that comes from the training ground with practice.” — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com