The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
AS several top-flight clubs struggle to remunerate their players, in these difficult times, ambitious ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League side, Simba Bhora, have been paying dues to their contracted players. The team, which was expected to take Division One football by storm before the pandemic struck, have kept their promise to keep paying players their monthly salaries. Paul Ndombo, the Simba Bhora team manager, said they were fortunate that their players had, at least, one to two-year contracts, and they were not affected by the recent window period. “We are just waiting for the right time, for sport to resume, and we are hopeful that it will be next year,’’ said Ndombo. “The team we had registered is still the same and we are trying our best to make sure that the players we have contracts with get their monthly dues. “It is unfortunate that the players are not enjoying benefits, such as winning bonuses, but we are making sure they get their monthly allowances. “These are trying times but we have to maintain professionalism at all cost. As a team, we were looking forward to be among the best this season but, unfortunately, the pandemic affected everyone the world over.’’ Simba Bhora have also embarked on an ambitious project, which saw them refurbishing their Wadzanai Stadium in Shamva, and work is in progress. Ndombo, who is also the ground refurbishment project manager, believes the delay in the resumption of the sport was also a blessing in disguise for them. They now have more time to finish their project. “We are working hard to see that our stadium refurbishment project is completed before year-end so that, when the season kicks off, all will be in place. “I believe we were helped, in a way, by the lockdown as it gave us a chance to renovate our grounds. “The project is going on well and I thank those who helped, especially the community, who have been supportive,” added Ndombo. Simba Bhora are a club owned by Shamva businessman, Simba Ndoro, who has been in the domestic game for some time now.