The Herald DAR ES SALAAM. — President John Magufuli took an early lead in presidential elections as the National Electoral Commission (NEC) started announcing provisional results yesterday. According to the preliminary results from 16 constituencies announced by NEC’s chairman Judge (Rtd), Semistocles Kaijage, the CCM candidate was leading, followed by opposition Chadema’s candidate Tundu Lissu. NEC first announced preliminary results from 12 constituencies and Dr Magufuli was ahead of other 14 presidential candidates. Some few minutes later, the commission announced results from other four constituencies. The ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Parliamentarian candidates have won in constituencies considered to be Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (CHADEMA)’s stronghold. Official results released early yesterday showed that Saashisha Mafue emerged the winner in Hai Constituency with 89 786 votes, while his nearest rival, who is also the national chairman for main opposition Chadema national chairman, Freeman Mbowe got 27 684. In Mbeya Urban, another constituency which was Chadema’s stronghold, Dr Tulia Ackson (CCM) was declared the winner with 75 225 of all votes while his counterpart, Joseph Mbilinyi (Chadema) got only 37 591. Official results announced in Moshi Urban showed that, Priscus Tarimo from CCM was the winner with 31 169 votes while Chadema’s Raymond Mboya got 22 555. Presidential candidates and other top politicians lauded the smooth voting process in the 2020 General Election held yesterday nationwide, calling upon Tanzanians to remain calm as they wait for the results. Most of the voters were pleased with the arrangements at polling stations as they smoothly and peacefully cast their ballots. Millions of Tanzanians, including Presidential, Parliamentary and Councillorship candidates, turned up to exercise their constitutional right, with 80 155 polling stations set up across the country. The ruling CCM presidential candidate Dr Magufuli cast his vote at Idara Ya Maji polling station in Chamwino District, Dodoma Region, and lauded the arrangements at the station since the electorate voted without any inconveniences. — Daily News of Tanzania.