The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Kaizer Chiefs have insisted striker, Samir Nurkovic, will not be allowed to leave the club ahead of the 2020/21 DStv Premiership season with the Amakhosi tabling an improved three-year offer that will make him one of the best-paid players at the club. The Soweto giants are keen to give Nurkovic a fresh contract that will elevate him closer to the club’s table of top earners — Khama Billiat, Itumeleng Khune, Leonardo Castro, Lebogang Manyama and Bernard Parker. The quartet, led by Zimbabwean forward Billiat, are all on packages of at least R4 million per annum. Nurkovic, 28, emerged as the club’s attacking talisman last season as they challenged for the league championship. The Serbian striker earned plaudits for his industrious displays that many have touted in the discussion for the PSL Footballer of the Season award. KickOff.com understands that a US$400 000 (approximately R6.63 million) offer has been submitted for Nurkovic from Saudi Pro League side Abha FC. Reports in Egyptian media suggest that Pitso Mosimane is keen on bringing him to Al Ahly. But, Chiefs are not considering any incoming offers, with interest brewing for the towering striker just weeks before the new campaign. “No club has approached us to negotiate for his services,” a club statement read. “We can’t let go of our top striker at this stage, we are not flexible in the market while waiting for CAS outcome.” Chiefs have appealed their FIFA transfer ban to the Court of Arbitration for Sport and are unable to register any new players until the suspension is lifted or runs its course in July 2021. Over a dozen Serbians have played in the Saudi League before while former Orlando Pirates striker, Tendai Ndoro, played for Al-Faisaly FC in the same league in the 2017/18 season. Meanwhile, who made the African All-Star XI during the transfer window in Europe? Goalkeeper: Edouard Mendy Senegal goalkeeper penned a deal with Chelsea after playing a key role in Stade Rennais’ qualification for the Champions League via a third-placed finish in France Ligue 1 last term. Right-back: Achraf Hakimi Left parent club Real Madrid in a €40 million deal for Internazionale, having impressed across two seasons on loan at Borussia Dortmund. The 21-year-old is already one of the most exciting full-backs in the world game, and Antonio Conte’s tutelage could help him become the most lethal right wing-back in the sport. Centre-back: William Troost-Ekong Experienced Nigerian defender returned to England with a point to prove after failing to make the grade with Tottenham Hotspur as a youngster. Centre-back: Nayef Aguerd The defender joined Stade Rennais. Left-back: Rayan Ait-Nouri A late arrival at Wolverhampton Wanderers, Ait-Nouri will compete with Jonny Otto on the left-side for the Old Gold and should thrive under Nuno Espirito Santo’s expansive approach. Centre-midfield: Thomas Partey The Ghanaian left Atletico Madrid for Arsenal after the Gunners exercised his fee-release clause and parted with £45 million to bring him to the Emirates Stadium. Centre-midfield: Abdoulaye Doucoure Yet to officially commit to Mali, despite being named in the Eagles’ latest squad, Doucoure penned a deal with Everton after leaving relegated Watford. Centre-midfield: Mohammed Kudus The 20-year-old made the step up from Danish football to the Eredivisie after swapping Nordsjaelland for Ajax in a €9 million deal. Forward: Oussama Idrissi Going the other way and leaving Dutch football, Idrissi swapped AZ Alkmaar for Sevilla on deadline day, signing for the Europa League champions in a €5 million deal. Forward: Victor Osimhen Osimhen was the big African mover of the window, swapping LOSC Lille for Napoli in a deal understood to be valued at €81 million. Forward: Karl Toko Ekambi Having spent the second half of last season on loan at Olympique Lyonnais — playing a part in the club’s Champions League, he moved to OL permanently for a fee of €11.5 million. — Kick-Off/Goal.com