The Herald Herald Reporter
Following the successful launch of the 2000 historic Land Reform Programme, the United States, in retaliation, imposed sanctions against Zimbabwe. Taking a cue from the US, the European Union followed suit and imposed economic sanctions in 2002. In response to the illegal economic embargo, which has been in existence for almost two decades, the 39th SADC Summit of Heads of State and Government held in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania declared October 25 as solidarity day against illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe and resolved to conduct various activities in their respective countries on that day to resoundingly call for immediate removal of sanctions. To mark commemorations of the SADC Anti-Sanctions Solidarity Day this year, The Herald has launched a poetry competition for primary and secondary school pupils, and an essay competition for higher and tertiary education students. The Herald Editor Hatred Zenenga said introduction of the poetry and essay competitions, targeting the youth, was a deliberate move meant to inculcate a sense of patriotism in the younger generation and be always conscious of issues of national interest that affect the country. “The youth are the future, and as such we feel it is very critical that they add their voices on the anti-sanctions campaign. This is an issue of national interest that affects every Zimbabwean,” said Zenenga. Zenenga said top three winners in each category will receive prize money, branded gifts and a tour of Herald House. For primary and secondary school pupils:
In not more than 300 words write a poem that shows Zimbabwe’s resilience against economic sanctions. For higher and tertiary level students:
In not more than 800 words, discuss why economic sanctions should be removed. Entries should be in by close of business on Wednesday October 21, 2020. The winning essays will be published in The Herald of October 24, 2020. Entries to: dsmaruziva@gmail.com or hand delivered to the Security Desk, The Herald House, George Silundika Avenue, Harare.