The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor HE can juggle the ball with both his right and left feet, and he even believes he does it so well that he posted it on his Twitter account for his followers to see. There is no question he can also coach — his fine work with Highlanders, whom he transformed into quite a competitive outfit in the second half of last season, bears testimony to that. He is quite a colourful character, no doubt about that, it’s not every day a coach posts his pictures, having breakfast, on his social media platforms. Now, Hendrik Pieter de Jongh, has another mission — he wants to be called into the Warriors side to take on Malawi in a friendly international in Blantyre on Sunday. Not as a technical assistant to his fellow gaffer, Zdravko Logarusic, but as one of the players who will feature for the Warriors in that match. It’s a joke, of course, but beneath the banter lies a deeper meaning. He is saying that if you are calling, or about to call players who have not featured in any competitive game for about seven months, why don’t you consider him? Yesterday, there were reports that Loga could be forced to turn to the local players, who have not featured in a game since the turn of the year, because he can’t get his preferred foreign-based Warriors. And de Jongh, who is also battling to get his FC Platinum back into training so that they can start preparing for their Champions League assignments next month, appears to be seeing a lighter side to that drama. “Now fully fit and ready to go,’’ he said after posting a video, on his Twitter account yesterday, of him juggling with the ball, possibly on a field in Zvishavane. “I make myself available as a player for the national team of Zimbabwe.’’ Then, he appeared to be teasing Loga. “But, I am in the line-up of national team of Zimbabwe at position 10. Because, coach select also players without training ball for more than 7 months.’’ His player, Silas Songani, who is currently on trials at Sudanese giants Al Hilal, joined the fun. “Good technique coach,’’ the forward, who returned home this year after years spent in Europe, responded on Twitter. And, Jan Niks, added to the debate with a comment in Dutch. “Mooi filmpje piet, goed bezig succes en blijf gezond (Nice movie Piet, well on the way, good luck and stay healthy).’’ De Jongh is a firm believer that professional footballers need as much time, as possible, for them to prepare. “How is it possible (you can have) preparation for only 4 weeks and then (you) want to start with the league,’’ he tweeted earlier this year. “Preparation need minimum of six weeks and now, after more than six months no training with team, is it best (to have) eight weeks preparation? “Every team need minimum of six weeks preparation for that league (to) start. Shorter (period) not possible because lot of injuries (will come and there won’t be) good performance of the teams.’’ The Dutchman is 50 and, for argument’s sake, can he play for the Warriors? He will probably say, why don’t you ask the same question to Innocent Benza, who turned 48 this year, and has said he won’t be throwing in the towel yet? He will probably also point to Ukraine, who this week included 45-year-old retired goalkeeper, Oleksandr Shovkovskiy, in their squad for last night’s friendly international against France. Three of their ‘keepers tested positive for Covid-19. Shovkovskiy, who retired in 2016 and has made around 90 appearances for Ukraine, is also the assistant to head coach Andriy Shevchenko. The UAF said in a statement that he is in “good physical shape” and will provide emergency backup to Georgiy Bushchan. Confirming the news in a statement on their official website, the country’s FA said: “Due to the fact there is only one healthy goalkeeper left in the national team of Ukraine, the coaching staff of the blue-yellows decided to include in application for a friendly game with France the assistant head coach Oleksandr Shovkovskiy. “Note the UEFA regulations allow to include in the list of participants of the match, including players who do not have a professional contract with any club, but are citizens of the country represented by the team.”