The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — SuperSport United’s Zimbabwean coach, Kaitano Tembo, says his club’s transfer budget has been curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic. SuperSport were never in the top bracket, when it came to splashing the cash, in the South African Premiership. Tembo was asked about the probability of making more signings, including the possibility of bringing former player Jeremy Brockie, back to the club. “As far as signings are concerned, we don’t have the money (anymore),” he told the Citizen. “Lucky (Mohomi) was our last signing. At the moment we don’t have the budget because of the situation with Covid-19. “There is no money for us to go out there in the market and look for players unless something happens but, for now, we have to do with what we have. “We have only brought in two youngsters, Mpho Mathebula and Keenan Phillips, as well as George Chigova and Lucky Mohomi. “It shows that we are no longer a team that has the budget to go out there and bring in the players we used to bring. “We have to try and do with what we have and try to stay competitive.’’ He said their signings have also been strategic. “We have always had marquee signings but recently, for the past two seasons, that has never happened,” Tembo explained. “We are still building and we are going to lack consistency, here and there, that is what I believe because we have got young players. “Young players sometimes lack that consistency. I am happy with the progress, we have done well considering what we have.” SuperSport finished fifth last season. They start their league campaign with a home match against Black Leopards tomorrow night. Tembo said striker Bradley Grobler has not been affected by a failed move to Orlando Pirates. “Look, Bradley is a professional and what’s important is for him to be happy here and I think he’s happy,” he told the media. “Irrespective of what might happen, and what might not happen, he’s always stayed professional who knows that his value is always maintained by him performing well.” The 32-year-old, who is one of the most lethal centre-forwards in the country, hit the back of the net 14 times in the league which was his best goal return in the top-flight. Grobler started the new 2020/21 season with a goal as SuperSport secured a 3-2 win over Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila in the MTN8 quarter-final match last weekend. “I don’t see any problems and I never thought I would see any problems because I know the type of player that he is and I anticipate another good season in terms of his form and scoring goals,” he said. “Remember, Bradley is not only important for us in terms of scoring goals. He’s also important in terms of our attacking structure. “He’s what we need in terms of leading our front line.” — Goal.com