The Herald Enacy Mapakame Business Reporter Dubai-based airline giant, Emirates, says it will increase flights between Harare, Lusaka and Dubai to three times a week from November 6, 2020 as governments continue to ease Covid-19 induced lockdown restrictions. According to the airline, the expanded schedule of services is expected to offer better connectivity for travellers in Zimbabwe and Zambia to Emirates’ growing destination network via Dubai of close to 100 destinations. Emirates will operate its third flight on Friday, utilising a Boeing 777-300ERs between Harare, via Lusaka to complement the current Saturday and Monday flights on the route to Dubai. The airline indicated it has put in place measures to ensure the safety of its market in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. As such, the airline says it will provide free cover for travellers that may be diagnosed with Covid-19 during their travel. “Travellers from Zimbabwe and Zambia can now travel with confidence thanks to the free cover on Covid-19 related medical expenses should they be diagnosed during their travel while they are away from home. “This cover is immediately effective for customers flying on Emirates until December 31, 2020 and is valid for 31 days from the moment they fly the first sector of their journey. “This means Emirates customers can continue to benefit from the added assurance of this cover, even if they travel onwards to another city after arriving at their Emirates destination,” said Emirates in statement. Additionally, Emirates has also put in place other measures to complement the free global cover to ensure the safety of its customers and employees on the ground and in the air. These measures include the distribution of complimentary hygiene kits containing masks, gloves, hand sanitiser and antibacterial wipes to all customers. The Dubai-based airline resumed operations in the two markets in September and October as both countries’ governments eased movement and travel restrictions. Emirates connects business and leisure travellers from Harare and Lusaka to the Middle East, Europe, the Far East, the Americas, Australasia and West Asia.