The Herald Crime Reporter Police have expressed concerned over the increase in murders largely due to rituals, infidelity, domestic disputes, alcohol abuse, debts and family problems. The remarks come at a time police have intensified investigations into the murder of a seven-year-old Murehwa boy, Tapiwa Makore. There are concerns that some people no longer value the sanctity of human life as minor disputes are ending up in loss of life. Police said investigations were in progress in a case in which seven-year-old boy, Tapiwa Makore, was killed in Murehwa in a suspected ritual murder. Last Friday, police recovered two legs in a Blair toilet after they were led by one of the suspects, Tafadzwa Shamba. Efforts are underway to recover the skull and arms. Police have launched a manhunt for the traditional healer who was  allegedly given the boy’s head and hands. Last week, Tapiwa Makore (Senior) 57, the suspect linked to the murder of the boy together with his herd boy Shamba, were remanded in custody. Makore is the older brother to the murdered boy’s father. He appeared before magistrate Ms Chiedza Gatsi at Murehwa Magistrate’s Court facing charges of murder, and was remanded in custody to October 13. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, said some of the suspects linked to the murder cases being investigated have since been arrested while others are still on the run. “We are concerned about murder cases and we would like to urge people to exercise restraint. They should resolve disputes in a peaceful manner or seek counselling,” he said. In Bikita, a 32-year-old man killed his 73-year-old father following a misunderstanding over a debt while a 22-year-old man killed his wife in Kwekwe after he found her being intimate with another man. The two suspects have since been arrested. In Beitbridge, a suspected thief was fatally assaulted by people after stealing seven boxes of cooking oil that were loaded in a parked vehicle while another man killed his ex-wife in Binga following a misunderstanding in a bushy area. An Epworth man also stabbed his landlord to death following a dispute while a 42-year-old Nkayi man went into hiding after allegedly striking his wife to death together with her suspected lover with an axe, following an altercation over an extramarital affair. Noel Dube is reported to have had a misunderstanding with his wife, Chiratidzo Khoza (35) after accusing her of having an affair with Nhlanhla Ndlovu (45). Police said Dube struck Khoza seven times on the head and all over the body at their homestead and she died on the spot. He then went to a homestead belonging to Jonathan Ncube where he found Ndlovu drinking beer and confronted him. Dube then started assaulting Ndlovu until he fell unconscious before he disappeared. Villagers sought a scotch cart to ferry Ndlovu to a nearby clinic and during the process, Dube returned to the scene armed with an axe and struck Ndlovu three times on the head before he disappeared. In Kezi, a 44-year-old man was recently arrested after axing his wife to death following a misunderstanding. Last week, a 36-year-old man in Wedza was fatally assaulted after he was found being intimate with another man’s wife at a homestead he had gone to drink beer. The woman’s husband caught them in the act and assaulted the man with a log on the head resulting in his death a few minutes later. Police have since arrested the suspect.